
                        
            
        
            
    
                    
                      
        
            
    
                    
                
                
                    
                    
                        
            
                            
                                
                              Education
                    
                        
                    
                                
                              Student
                    
                        
            The Korean CSAT is the exam that stops a nation
                

            
         

                            
                Every November, around 600,000 Korean students sit the CSAT. The test is a college entrance examination so important it grinds the country to a halt – even stopping air traffic.
            
                
                                
                    
                    
                    
                     
                    
                    
                    
                        
            
                
                

                By Kwon Moon
                15 November 2018
            
            
        

                        
                        
                            Today, almost 600,000 South Korean students sit the College Scholastic Ability Test, a gruelling, eight-hour set of university entrance exams.It is difficult to overstate the significance of the CSAT. Similar to other global standardised exams, CSAT scores open doors to prestigious universities. In Korea, however, social pressure and peer judgement not to attend local colleges cause many students to jockey for a few spots in three top universities located in Seoul (known as the ‘SKY’ colleges). Only 1% of students will be admitted.For a single day, the exam becomes the priority of the entire nation.Work starts an hour later, enabling students to get to their testing centres on time; planes are grounded during the listening portion so as not to create any extra noise. Younger classmates flood the streets to support upperclassmen. Parents pray together that the many hours of study their children have put in will pay off.Without top scores, entrance into the highly desired SKY universities is nearly impossible – which leads many students to sit for the CSAT exams multiple times. The test can become a life-consuming endeavour.Additional editing by Bernadette Ocampo Young.To comment on this story or anything else you have seen on BBC Capital, please head over to our Facebook page or message us on Twitter.If you liked this story, sign up for the weekly bbc.com features newsletter called "If You Only Read 6 Things This Week". A handpicked selection of stories from BBC Future, Culture, Capital and Travel, delivered to your inbox every Friday.
                        

                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                        
            
