  
                    
                    
                        
                            Media playback is not supported on this device
                        
                    
                
                Highlights: Shrubsole & Sciver lead England to victoryICC Women's Twenty20, St LuciaSouth Africa 85 (19.3 overs): Tryon 27, Sciver 3-4, Shrubsole 3-27England 87-3 (14.1 overs): Wyatt 27, Van Niekerk 2-13England won by seven wicketsScorecardAnya Shrubsole's hat-trick took England into the Women's World Twenty20 semi-finals as they thrashed South Africa by seven wickets in St Lucia.England's place in the final four was confirmed when West Indies beat Sri Lanka in the group's other game.Shrubsole's hat-trick was only the second England T20 international hat-trick, while Nat Sciver claimed 3-4 as South Africa were all out for 85.
    
        
England raced to 55-0 after eight overs and won with 35 balls remaining.Hayley Matthews was the Windies' star as the hosts and defending champions also reached the semi-finals.The all-rounder smashed 62 off 36 balls and then took 3-16 as Sri Lanka were bowled out for 104 chasing 188 to win.TablesResults & fixturesWest Indies and England, who meet in each side's final group game on Sunday, will join Australia and India in the semi-finals. Group B's top two meet on Saturday in a match to decide top spot.The semi-finals will be held in Antigua on Thursday and Friday, with the final at the same venue on 25 November.For England, losing the toss and then their one review in the second over - an lbw appeal against Lizelle Lee that would not have hit a second set of stumps - were about the only elements that did not go to plan in an assured display. 
                    
                    
                        
                            Media playback is not supported on this device
                        
                    
                
                'Wow!' - Shrubsole hat-trick ends South Africa inningsSouth Africa, who lost their last five wickets for just one run against West Indies, knew victory was essential to preserve their ambitions in the tournament.But their innings never carried any momentum and they failed to find the boundary in eight overs after the initial powerplay.Two wickets fell in the ninth over, including South Africa captain Dane van Niekerk - run-out at the non-striker's end after the slightest of deflections into the stumps from bowler Kirstie Gordon, who added 2-18 to her 3-16 on debut against Bangladesh.Chloe Tryon struck two sixes in three balls but skied tamely to mid-off as Sciver finished with a double wicket maiden and outstanding figures of 3-4 from four overs.Shrubsole, who took the winning wicket for England at last year's 50-over World Cup, ended the innings in devastating fashion.South Africa managed only four fours and four sixes in an innings which featured 74 dot balls.TMS podcast: Hats off to ShrubsoleEngland reached 50 from 43 balls with little difficulty in their pursuit. Fast bowler Shabnim Ismail, who took 3-12 against West Indies, was hit for six fours as her three overs went for 32.The purposeful Danni Wyatt passed 1,000 T20 international runs before she was bowled behind her legs by Van Niekerk's first ball.Although wickets fell in each of the next two overs, captain Heather Knight and Amy Jones added an unbroken 27 to secure victory for England.'Almost the complete performance'England seamer Anya Shrubsole: "It's hard to replace (injured) Katherine Brunt's batting and bowling, but the credit has to go to Nat Sciver for stepping up. "We were better today than we were against Bangladesh and hopefully we can get better again. We're a young group - Lauren Winfield was the oldest playing today at 28 and she was devastated!"England captain Heather Knight: "I'm so pleased with the performance, Anya and Nat set the tone with the ball, we fielded well and it was almost the complete performance."South Africa captain Dane van Niekerk: "We owe an apology to our whole country. It's not our character to roll over like that. We have the firepower and the talent but you need to perform at World Cups against quality sides like England."I don't know what's going on. I don't have answers. It's almost as though losing is becoming a habit."Former England batter Ebony Rainford-Brent on BBC Test Match Special: "I like that England came out and played so positively. Danni Wyatt plays with freedom, she doesn't overcomplicate her game. England are looking like a well-drilled team. "I still think three spinners might be too much, but they've got Tash Farrant still in the wings. The fielding and catching was good, but teams like Australia will do their homework as England struggled once Van Niekerk came on."ICC Women's World Twenty20Venues: Guyana, St Lucia, Antigua Dates: 9-24 NovemberCoverage: Ball-by-ball Test Match Special commentary and in-play video highlights on all games on BBC Radio 5 live sports extra and via the BBC Sport website & app; live text commentary on all England & Ireland games, plus selected other matches
 
