  
                    
                        
                
                Ilkay Gundogan finished off a move which featured 44 passes to score Manchester City's third goalManchester City returned to the Premier League summit with a convincing derby victory over Manchester United at Etihad Stadium.Pep Guardiola's side were seeking the result they needed to go back to the top of the table after Liverpool's lunchtime win over Fulham at Anfield - and it was rarely in doubt after David Silva bundled home an early goal to give them a narrow interval advantage.City got the second goal their superiority deserved with Sergio Aguero's rasping, rising finish past David de Gea three minutes into the second half following an exchange of passes with Riyad Mahrez.
    
        
Jose Mourinho's side, without injured Paul Pogba, barely mounted a serious threat but were given hope of earning an unlikely point just before the hour when Romelu Lukaku was hauled down by Ederson seconds after he had come on as substitute. Anthony Martial sent the Brazilian the wrong way from the spot.It briefly revived memories of last season's dramatic derby here when United came from two goals down to win, but City never looked like losing control and wrapped up the win two minutes from time when substitute Ilkay Gundogan took advantage of static United defending to beat De Gea from close range following a 44-pass move.Did Man City score 'the perfect goal'? Reaction to move that took up 2.13% of matchWho can stop rampant Man City?Manchester City's answer to Liverpool briefly returning to the head of the Premier League table was emphatic as this win was a comfortable as the scoreline suggests, arguably even more so.Liverpool and Chelsea remain unbeaten in the Premier League, although Maurizio Sarri's side slipped as they were held to a 0-0 draw by Everton at Stamford Bridge.They remain very much in the title shake-up, as do fourth-placed Tottenham.The problem for the chasing pack appears to be that Manchester City are currently operating on a different level to everyone else.United were probably feeling pleased with themselves that somehow, despite barely laying a glove on City, they were actually still in contention for a point until Gundogan's late goal ended all the arguments.And it was a goal that summed up City under Guardiola.The finish looked simple enough as Gundogan slipped in past some static United defenders to score with ease but it crowned a 44-pass sequence, the most before a goal since Juan Mata scored for Manchester United against Southampton in September 2015.City are two points clear of Liverpool but have a goal difference of +31 as opposed to +18 and this was another of their most difficult fixtures negotiated with their usual flair.Man City's old guard key to victory
                    
                        
                
                Manchester City's David Silva has scored four goals in his past five gamesManchester City's latest win was built on the foundations built by three established members of their recent glories.Sergio Aguero may have gone from brunette to striking blonde but under the new hairstyle remained the same lethal striker who has been the centrepiece of so many of their successes.It was classic Aguero when he scored City's crucial second three minutes after half-time, exchanging passes with Mahrez before lashing home a near-post finish that carried so much power, De Gea barely had time to react.It was his 151st goal in 218 Premier League games and his 208th goal in 307 games in all competitions for City. These statistics emphasise his status as one of the modern game's great strikers.David Silva, at 32 now an elder statesman at City, set them on their way with the early opener and showed his usual knack of finding space in crowded areas and ability to dictate tempo even at the most frenetic times.At the heart of it all was the unsung Fernandinho, the 33-year-old Brazilian patrolling midfield with class and quality, working effectively in the shadows.Guardiola knows his worth - and will also know he will be very difficult to replace when the time comes.Man United's slow start finishes title hopes
                    
                        
                
                This was Manchester United's first league defeat since they were beaten 3-1 by West Ham on 29 SeptemberManchester United manager Jose Mourinho has bemoaned his team's slow starts this season and appears at a loss to discover the cure. And it is now too late to salvage any title aspirations.They had survived a couple of narrow escapes before Silva scored after 12 minutes to put them on the back foot once more and to give City the sort of control and impetus they relish.United clearly missed the injured Paul Pogba, who helped turn this derby around last season, but this was still a performance lacking in invention and serious attacking threat.And while Gundogan's goal crowned a glorious move, Mourinho will have looked on in anguish as United defenders stood around like statues.United are now 12 points adrift of City. They can forget the Premier League title for another season.Man of the match - David Silva (Manchester City)
                    
                        
                
                David Silva was excellent for the hosts and has now scored in City's past three home games'We played with a bit of fear' - what they saidManchester City manager Pep Guardiola speaking to Match of the Day: "We deserved the victory. The first half we played a little bit with fear but football is a game and we didn't want to lose the ball. We didn't want to attack and they defended well."In the second half the game is a bit open so we have to find more space but we made a good performance against a top, top team. We wanted to play good in front of our fans and we know how important it is to play in this game. But we did well and that goal from Sergio Aguero helped us a lot after half-time.Manchester United boss Jose Mourinho to Sky Sports: "We were in the game until the 80th-something minute and the third goal killed the spirit and morale of the team."One thinking is a bad performance and one thinking is a performance with mistakes. I think ours was a performance with mistakes. It is football and for me it is even more football when we have a week where we play three consecutive matches away and Manchester City play three consecutive games at home. Our last match against Juventus left some scars in the team.  "We are outside the top four, how can we speak about the title? Lets fight to close the gap to jump into the top four. If we jump into the top four then lets see the difference."A start to forget for United - the best of the statsIt is the first time since 1990-91 that Manchester United have lost as many as four of their opening 12 games in a top-flight season.This is the first time since 1977-78 that United have a negative goal difference after 12 games of a top-flight season.It is the first time in English top-flight history that three clubs have remained unbeaten in their opening 12 games of the season (Manchester City, Liverpool and Chelsea).Only Fulham (0) have kept fewer clean sheets than Manchester United (1) in the Premier League this season.Man City's Sergio Aguero has scored eight Premier League goals against Manchester United - only Alan Shearer (10) has more against the Red Devils in the competition.There were just 30 seconds between Lukaku coming on as a substitute for Man Utd, and winning the penalty that made it 2-1.David Silva has scored in three consecutive home games in all competitions for Man City for the first time.This was Jose Mourinho's 300th Premier League game as manager - despite defeat today, he's won more games than any other manager in their first 300 in the competition (189).What's next?Manchester City travel to West Ham on Saturday, 24 November (15:00 GMT) in the Premier League, while Manchester United host Crystal Palace on the same day (also 15:00).Line-upsMatch StatsLive TextLine-upsMan City31Ederson2Walker5Stones14Laporte22Mendy20Bernardo SilvaBooked at 33mins25Fernandinho21SilvaSubstituted forFodenat 90+2'minutes26MahrezSubstituted forSanéat 62'minutes10AgüeroSubstituted forGündoganat 75'minutes7SterlingSubstitutes4Kompany8Gündogan18Delph19Sané33Gabriel Jesus47Foden49MuricMan Utd1De Gea18Young12Smalling2Lindelöf23ShawBooked at 42mins21HerreraSubstituted forMataat 73'minutes27Fellaini31Matic14LingardSubstituted forLukakuat 57'minutes10RashfordSubstituted forSánchezat 73'minutes11MartialSubstitutes4Jones7Sánchez8Mata9Lukaku17Fred22Romero36DarmianReferee:Anthony TaylorAttendance:54,316Match StatsHome TeamMan CityAway TeamMan UtdPossessionHome65%Away35%ShotsHome17Away6Shots on TargetHome5Away1CornersHome5Away1FoulsHome12Away12Live TextPosted at   Match ends, Manchester City 3, Manchester United 1.Full TimePosted at 90'+4' Second Half ends, Manchester City 3, Manchester United 1.Posted at 90'+4' Corner,  Manchester City. Conceded by Alexis Sánchez.SubstitutionPosted at 90'+2' Substitution, Manchester City. Phil Foden replaces David Silva.Posted at 88' Foul by Benjamin Mendy (Manchester City).Posted at 88' Alexis Sánchez (Manchester United) wins a free kick in the defensive half.Goal!Posted at 86' Goal!  Manchester City 3, Manchester United 1. Ilkay Gündogan (Manchester City) left footed shot from very close range to the centre of the goal. Assisted by Bernardo Silva with a cross.Posted at 83' Attempt blocked. Juan Mata (Manchester United) right footed shot from the left side of the box is blocked. Assisted by Nemanja Matic.Posted at 81' Attempt missed. Ilkay Gündogan (Manchester City) right footed shot from outside the box misses to the right. Assisted by Raheem Sterling.Posted at 77' Benjamin Mendy (Manchester City) wins a free kick in the defensive half.Posted at 77' Foul by Alexis Sánchez (Manchester United).SubstitutionPosted at 75' Substitution, Manchester City. Ilkay Gündogan replaces Sergio Agüero.Posted at 74' Attempt missed. Leroy Sané (Manchester City) left footed shot from outside the box is high and wide to the left. Assisted by Raheem Sterling following a fast break.Posted at 74' Attempt blocked. Nemanja Matic (Manchester United) right footed shot from the centre of the box is blocked.Posted at 74' Foul by Benjamin Mendy (Manchester City).Posted at 74' Alexis Sánchez (Manchester United) wins a free kick on the right wing.SubstitutionPosted at 73' Substitution, Manchester United. Alexis Sánchez replaces Marcus Rashford.SubstitutionPosted at 73' Substitution, Manchester United. Juan Mata replaces Ander Herrera.Posted at 71' Fernandinho (Manchester City) wins a free kick in the attacking half.Posted at 71' Foul by Marouane Fellaini (Manchester United).Posted at 70' Attempt saved. Fernandinho (Manchester City) right footed shot from outside the box is saved in the bottom right corner. Assisted by Bernardo Silva.Posted at 68' Leroy Sané (Manchester City) wins a free kick on the left wing.Posted at 68' Foul by Ashley Young (Manchester United).Posted at 67' Attempt saved. Fernandinho (Manchester City) right footed shot from outside the box is saved in the centre of the goal. Assisted by Leroy Sané.Posted at 66' Attempt blocked. David Silva (Manchester City) left footed shot from outside the box is blocked. Assisted by Bernardo Silva.Posted at 63' Hand ball by Ashley Young (Manchester United).SubstitutionPosted at 62' Substitution, Manchester City. Leroy Sané replaces Riyad Mahrez.Posted at 62' Bernardo Silva (Manchester City) wins a free kick on the right wing.Posted at 62' Foul by Victor Lindelöf (Manchester United).Posted at 60' Foul by Fernandinho (Manchester City).Posted at 60' Luke Shaw (Manchester United) wins a free kick on the left wing.Goal!Posted at 58' Goal!  Manchester City 2, Manchester United 1. Anthony Martial (Manchester United) converts the penalty with a right footed shot to the bottom right corner.Posted at 57' Penalty conceded by Ederson (Manchester City) after a foul in the penalty area.Posted at 57' Penalty Manchester United. Romelu Lukaku draws a foul in the penalty area.SubstitutionPosted at 57' Substitution, Manchester United. Romelu Lukaku replaces Jesse Lingard.Posted at 54' Attempt blocked. Raheem Sterling (Manchester City) left footed shot from the left side of the box is blocked. Assisted by Bernardo Silva.Posted at 53' Foul by Raheem Sterling (Manchester City).Posted at 53' Jesse Lingard (Manchester United) wins a free kick in the defensive half.Posted at 51' Foul by Aymeric Laporte (Manchester City).Posted at 51' Marcus Rashford (Manchester United) wins a free kick in the defensive half.Show more updatesgoal
 
