  
                    
                    
                        
                            Media playback is not supported on this device
                        
                    
                
                Man Utd didn't have enough intensity - MourinhoManchester United manager Jose Mourinho has accused his players of not showing "enough heart" after they limped to a goalless draw at home to Crystal Palace.At the start of what Mourinho described as a key run of eight league games between now and the end of 2018, United produced an insipid display against opponents who are fighting to stay out of the relegation zone."You must play with brain and also with heart and I think not enough heart," he said.
    
        
"We didn't have that intensity that in my opinion is basically related with your brain, with your heart. There are games that are special games and not just one more, and this was a special game."It was the first of eight Premier League games until the end of December and a game we needed to win, and it was not enough from the heart."United have won just three of their nine games at Old Trafford this season.Reaction to all of Saturday's Premier League gamesWhat happened in the Premier League on Saturday?Romelu Lukaku had an attempt ruled out for offside and another kept out by Wayne Hennessey, who also produced smart saves to deny Jesse Lingard.But Palace, without a win in their previous seven league games and one point above the bottom three, created several chances as they tried to secure a first league win at Old Trafford since 1989.Patrick van Aanholt twice went close, Andros Townsend blazed wide and a header by Cheikhou Kouyate was also disallowed for offside. 
                    
                        
                
                Crystal Palace had lost on their past 11 league visits to Old TraffordWhere is United's season heading?United fans have had to endure some disappointments this season, and this was another day to forget for Mourinho and his players.On the eve of the game, the manager claimed United could break into the Premier League's top four by the end of December.They still might, but they will have to play an awful lot better than they did in this laboured performance, which left them 14 points behind leaders Manchester City after just 13 games.Paul Pogba and Lukaku were recalled to the side, yet World Cup winner Pogba failed to finish the game and Lukaku is still searching for his first league goal since 15 September as United failed to score at home for the fourth time this campaign. Lingard was United's most threatening player for spells and his first-time shot from close range brought out the very best from Hennessey.Anthony Martial rarely looked like making it six goals in six Premier League games as United dropped two more points ahead of a congested eight-match December programme, which includes games against Arsenal (home) and Liverpool (away).United have a quick chance to get over this when they host Young Boys in the Champions League on Tuesday.However, Mourinho added: "If we play with the same philosophy against Young boys then we won't win."Palace show they have stomach for a fightThe long wait for a Palace league victory at Old Trafford goes on.Yet Roy Hodgson and his players left Manchester with renewed vigour in their battle to stay out of the relegation zone.Hodgson has claimed this season his side have not got the results their performances have merited."At least we got something and on another day if fate had been kinder and we had been a bit more clinical, we could have  won it," he said."At least I have got the satisfaction of believing the team played extremely well."
                    
                    
                        
                            Media playback is not supported on this device
                        
                    
                
                Hodgson 'proud' of Palace performanceThe odds were stacked against Palace. They had lost on their past 11 league visits to Old Trafford and have not scored a league goal at the ground since 2004.However, Wilfried Zaha sparkled on his return to his former club as Hodgson's team produced one of their best performances of the season to secure a crucial point.Zaha's pace caused countless problems, and if Townsend had shown more composure after creating an opening for himself in the second half, Palace would have been celebrating a famous win.They have a tough December on the horizon, including a visit to leaders Manchester City and a home game with Chelsea, but this gritty performance will give them some encouragement.Man of the match - Wilfried Zaha (Crystal Palace)
                    
                        
                
                Zaha's pace caused problems throughout and the former Manchester United player had four shots - more than than any of his team-mates'We didn't win one point - we lost two' - what they saidManchester United manager Jose Mourinho:"I'm frustrated. We didn't win one point - we lost two. There was not even aggression and not enough intensity."When the opponent had the ball, we didn't press enough. They were allowed to breathe and relax."When you are at home and want to win the game then you don't stop until you win it. We played the game nicely but not with enough intensity."Crystal Palace manager Roy Hodgson:"We have played like that the last four games against tough opponents. We have played Arsenal, Tottenham and Manchester United."In each of those games we have come out thinking 'we have played well'. I'm proud of the team's performance. I can't ask any more than what they gave me."The shape, organisation and discipline of the team was as good as it has been. On the counter-attack we looked very dangerous and had some good opportunities."There was at least one positive for Man Utd - the statsThis was United's first home Premier League clean sheet of the season - they last kept one against Watford in May. Palace had 13 shots in this match, their most in an away Premier League game this season. However, just two were on target.United are unbeaten in their last 21 league meetings with Crystal Palace (W17 D4).Palace picked up a first point in a league game at Old Trafford since winning 2-1 in December 1989.This was United's 65th 0-0 draw in the 26 seasons of the Premier League - 31% of them have come in the six seasons since Sir Alex Ferguson retired.United failed to score in a top-flight home meeting with Crystal Palace for the first time since October 1970.What's next?Manchester United are back at Old Trafford on Tuesday when they look to book a place in the Champions League knockout stage when Young Boys (20:00 GMT) visit. Meanwhile, Crystal Palace have a week to prepare for the visit of fellow strugglers Burnley to Selhurst Park on 1 December (15:00).Line-upsMatch StatsLive TextLine-upsMan Utd1De Gea36Darmian12Smalling2Lindelöf18YoungBooked at 71mins14LingardSubstituted forFellainiat 60'minutes31Matic6PogbaSubstituted forSánchezat 68'minutes8MataSubstituted forRashfordat 60'minutes9Lukaku11MartialSubstitutes4Jones7Sánchez10Rashford13Grant17Fred25A Valencia27FellainiCrystal Palace13Hennessey29Wan-Bissaka5Tomkins12SakhoBooked at 27mins3van Aanholt18McArthur8Kouyaté4MilivojevicBooked at 9mins7Meyer10TownsendSubstituted forSchluppat 88'minutes11ZahaSubstituted forJ Ayewat 90+1'minutesSubstitutes2Ward9Sørloth14J Ayew15Schlupp31Guaita34Kelly42PuncheonReferee:Lee MasonAttendance:74,516Match StatsHome TeamMan UtdAway TeamCrystal PalacePossessionHome60%Away40%ShotsHome12Away13Shots on TargetHome5Away2CornersHome10Away3FoulsHome13Away12Live TextPosted at   Match ends, Manchester United 0, Crystal Palace 0.Full TimePosted at 90'+5' Second Half ends, Manchester United 0, Crystal Palace 0.Posted at 90'+5' Foul by Alexis Sánchez (Manchester United).Posted at 90'+5' Luka Milivojevic (Crystal Palace) wins a free kick in the attacking half.Posted at 90'+4' Alexis Sánchez (Manchester United) wins a free kick in the defensive half.Posted at 90'+4' Foul by James McArthur (Crystal Palace).Posted at 90'+3' Attempt missed. Cheikhou Kouyaté (Crystal Palace) right footed shot from the right side of the box is too high. Assisted by Jordan Ayew.Posted at 90'+2' Hand ball by Jeffrey Schlupp (Crystal Palace).SubstitutionPosted at 90'+1' Substitution, Crystal Palace. Jordan Ayew replaces Wilfried Zaha.Posted at 90' Attempt missed. Cheikhou Kouyaté (Crystal Palace) right footed shot from outside the box is too high. Assisted by Wilfried Zaha.Posted at 89' Corner,  Manchester United. Conceded by Patrick van Aanholt.Posted at 89' Attempt blocked. Marcus Rashford (Manchester United) left footed shot from the centre of the box is blocked. Assisted by Alexis Sánchez.SubstitutionPosted at 88' Substitution, Crystal Palace. Jeffrey Schlupp replaces Andros Townsend.Posted at 87' Foul by Marouane Fellaini (Manchester United).Posted at 87' James Tomkins (Crystal Palace) wins a free kick in the defensive half.Posted at 85' Attempt saved. Nemanja Matic (Manchester United) left footed shot from outside the box is saved in the top right corner. Assisted by Anthony Martial.Posted at 83' Corner,  Manchester United. Conceded by Wayne Hennessey.Posted at 83' Attempt saved. Romelu Lukaku (Manchester United) header from the centre of the box is saved in the bottom right corner. Assisted by Matteo Darmian with a cross.Posted at 83' Corner,  Manchester United. Conceded by James Tomkins.Posted at 81' Attempt missed. Patrick van Aanholt (Crystal Palace) left footed shot from outside the box is too high. Assisted by Mamadou Sakho.Posted at 79' Ashley Young (Manchester United) wins a free kick on the left wing.Posted at 79' Foul by Aaron Wan-Bissaka (Crystal Palace).Posted at 79' Attempt missed. Andros Townsend (Crystal Palace) left footed shot from outside the box is close, but misses to the left. Assisted by Luka Milivojevic.Posted at 78' Attempt missed. Anthony Martial (Manchester United) right footed shot from the left side of the box is close, but misses to the left.Posted at 77' Offside, Crystal Palace. Max Meyer tries a through ball, but Wilfried Zaha is caught offside.Posted at 77' Attempt missed. Max Meyer (Crystal Palace) left footed shot from outside the box is close, but misses to the right following a corner.Posted at 76' Corner,  Crystal Palace. Conceded by Nemanja Matic.Posted at 76' Attempt blocked. Wilfried Zaha (Crystal Palace) right footed shot from outside the box is blocked. Assisted by Andros Townsend.Posted at 75' Corner,  Manchester United. Conceded by Luka Milivojevic.Posted at 74' Attempt missed. Andros Townsend (Crystal Palace) right footed shot from the centre of the box is close, but misses to the left.Posted at 73' Hand ball by Alexis Sánchez (Manchester United).BookingPosted at 71' Ashley Young (Manchester United) is shown the yellow card for a bad foul.Posted at 71' Foul by Ashley Young (Manchester United).Posted at 71' James McArthur (Crystal Palace) wins a free kick on the right wing.Posted at 71' Delay over. They are ready to continue.Posted at 69' Delay in match Luka Milivojevic (Crystal Palace) because of an injury.SubstitutionPosted at 68' Substitution, Manchester United. Alexis Sánchez replaces Paul Pogba.Posted at 66' Foul by Victor Lindelöf (Manchester United).Posted at 66' Wilfried Zaha (Crystal Palace) wins a free kick in the defensive half.Posted at 63' Attempt saved. Patrick van Aanholt (Crystal Palace) left footed shot from the left side of the box is saved in the centre of the goal.Show more updatesgoal
 
