  
                    
                        
                
                Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang is now the Premier League's joint top scorer with eight goalsArsenal moved to within one point of the Premier League top four and extended their unbeaten run in all competitions to 17 games with victory at Bournemouth.The Gunners took the lead thanks to a spectacular own goal from Cherries midfielder Jefferson Lerma, who volleyed Sead Kolasinac's cross past Asmir Begovic from 15 yards.Joshua King, making his comeback after four games out with an ankle injury, finished off a swift counter-attacking move to bring the hosts level seconds before half-time.
    
        
But Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang scored what proved to be the winner after the break when he converted Kolasinac's cross for his eighth Premier League goal of the season.After beginning the weekend in sixth, Bournemouth drop two places to eighth and have now lost their past three league matches.The Cherries were aggrieved early on when David Brooks had a goal ruled out for offside, with replays suggesting he was marginally behind Shkodran Mustafi when the ball was played.But that proved to be the catalyst for a confident display from Arsenal, who secured their fourth Premier League away win of the campaign - equalling their tally for the whole of last season.Aubameyang the hero again
                    
                    
                        
                            Media playback is not supported on this device
                        
                    
                
                Win vital to Arsenal's top four hopes - EmeryA run of four draws in their past five games had stemmed some of the excitement generated during the early weeks of manager Unai Emery's reign.But this impressive performance, against a side who began the day just four points behind the Gunners, will raise hopes among supporters that their side can sustain a top-four challenge this season.With Alexandre Lacazette ruled out with a groin injury, Emery switched formation to a back three, with Aubameyang the lone striker.The Gabon international responded by netting again and moving to the top of the Premier League scoring charts alongside Manchester City striker Sergio Aguero.To further highlight his importance to the side, Aubameyang has now been directly involved in 23 goals in 26 league appearances since joining Arsenal from Borussia Dortmund in January.The 29-year-old was ably supported on this occasion by Alex Iwobi and Henrikh Mkhitaryan, with 14 of the Gunners' 20 shots at goal coming from those three players.The formation change also allowed Kolasinac to be a constant threat down the Arsenal left, with the Bosnia-Herzegovina international having a hand in both goals.Bournemouth momentum stalling
                    
                    
                        
                            Media playback is not supported on this device
                        
                    
                
                Key decisions went against Cherries - HoweBournemouth have enjoyed a brilliant season so far but this loss made it three straight defeats - more than they had suffered in the opening 10 games of the campaign.They were second best for much of this match, but manager Eddie Howe can point to two key moments of misfortune.Brooks' disallowed goal will leave the Cherries rueing the lack of video assistant referee (VAR), which is being introduced in the Premier League from next term, while there is also little a manager can do to legislate for Lerma's spectacular own goal - his thunderous finish as he stretched to cut out Kolasinac's pass giving Begovic no chance.Despite those key incidents going against them, Howe's side demonstrated considerable spirit to level before half-time thanks to a fine finish from the fit-again King.And after falling behind once more in the second half they were unlucky not to equalise when Lerma's long-range strike hit the post late on.Despite the disappointment, the team have made huge strides this season - they had to wait until the end of December last term to reach their current tally of 20 points.However, with games against Manchester City, Liverpool, Tottenham, Chelsea and Manchester United before the end of the year, Howe faces a real challenge if he is to sustain Bournemouth's top-six challenge into 2019.Manager, father figure, dinner companion - what makes Howe England's 'special one'?Man of the match - Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang
                    
                        
                
                Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang has scored 14 goals in his 16 Premier League matches played on a Sunday - 78% of his total strikes in the competitionWhat they said - 'the luck was against us'Bournemouth manager Eddie Howe: "I thought we were well in the match but there are fine margins between winning and losing and the luck was against us today. Jefferson Lerma's shot at the end was very close and there were a few goalmouth scrambles where on another day the ball drops our way. "If you look at the two goals we conceded, an own goal and the winning goal, for all Arsenal's good play the game could have gone any way."On David Brooks' disallowed goal: "My gut feeling at the time was it looked a good goal but those key decisions in games like this need to go with you."On Arsenal's winning goal: "I don't think the players individually would say they switched off, but as a team we didn't look alert and we paid the price for that. It's really important that the players don't lose confidence and we have to try and respond next week."Arsenal boss Unai Emery: "We are happy and before the match we knew it would be a difficult match and that we needed to win today to be near the top four. Bournemouth were four points behind us and could have been near our position with a win."In 90 minutes we deserved to win. We worked with the system sometimes, it's another possibility and we spoke in the dressing room about how we can be better and control matches. But we have won with another system and we can also do that."Bournemouth pushed a lot but I'm very happy with every player and how they worked and it's good for next week. We are going to play another match against a top team like Tottenham."Arsenal march on - the statsAfter losing just two of their opening 10 games in the Premier League this season (W6 D2), Bournemouth have lost their past three in a row.Arsenal have already won as many Premier League away games this season (four of six) as they did in the whole of the 2017-18 campaign (four of 19).Bournemouth have lost back-to-back home games in the league for the first time since August 2017, when they lost their first two of the 2017-18 campaign.Arsenal are one of only two teams yet to lead at half-time in a Premier League game this term (alongside Cardiff) - though they have gone on to win eight of those 13 fixtures.Bournemouth striker Josh King scored his 35th goal in the Premier League, 10 more than the player with the next most for the Cherries (Callum Wilson with 25).Since being promoted to the Premier League in 2015, only Swansea (12) have scored more own goals in the competition than Bournemouth's seven.What's next?Arsenal travel to Ukrainian side Vorskla Poltava in the Europa League on Thursday (17:55 GMT kick-off) before hosting Tottenham in the north London derby in the Premier League next Sunday (14:05).Next up for Bournemouth is a trip to Etihad Stadium to play champions Manchester City next Saturday (15:00).Line-upsMatch StatsLive TextLine-upsBournemouth27Begovic2Francis3S Cook5AkéBooked at 52mins11Daniels20BrooksSubstituted forStanislasat 73'minutes4GoslingSubstituted forL Cookat 73'minutes8LermaBooked at 66mins24Fraser13Wilson17KingSubstituted forMoussetat 82'minutesSubstitutes1Boruc6Surman9Mousset16L Cook18Defoe19Stanislas26MingsArsenal19Leno20Mustafi5PapastathopoulosBooked at 25mins16Holding2Bellerín11TorreiraSubstituted forGuendouziat 79'minutes34Xhaka31Kolasinac7Mkhitaryan17IwobiSubstituted forRamseyat 82'minutes14AubameyangSubstituted forNketiahat 90+4'minutesSubstitutes1Cech4Elneny8Ramsey10Özil15Maitland-Niles29Guendouzi49NketiahReferee:Craig PawsonAttendance:10,792Match StatsHome TeamBournemouthAway TeamArsenalPossessionHome41%Away59%ShotsHome11Away20Shots on TargetHome5Away4CornersHome5Away8FoulsHome6Away9Live TextPosted at   Match ends, Bournemouth 1, Arsenal 2.Full TimePosted at 90'+6' Second Half ends, Bournemouth 1, Arsenal 2.Posted at 90'+6' Attempt missed. Junior Stanislas (Bournemouth) right footed shot from outside the box is high and wide to the right from a direct free kick.Posted at 90'+5' Foul by Shkodran Mustafi (Arsenal).Posted at 90'+5' Callum Wilson (Bournemouth) wins a free kick in the attacking half.Posted at 90'+5' Foul by Henrikh Mkhitaryan (Arsenal).Posted at 90'+5' Callum Wilson (Bournemouth) wins a free kick in the defensive half.SubstitutionPosted at 90'+4' Substitution, Arsenal. Eddie Nketiah replaces Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang.Posted at 90'+3' Corner,  Arsenal. Conceded by Nathan Aké.Posted at 90'+2' Matteo Guendouzi (Arsenal) wins a free kick in the attacking half.Posted at 90'+2' Foul by Lys Mousset (Bournemouth).Posted at 90'+1' Attempt missed. Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang (Arsenal) left footed shot from outside the box misses to the right. Assisted by Aaron Ramsey.Posted at 89' Corner,  Bournemouth. Conceded by Bernd Leno.Posted at 89' Corner,  Bournemouth. Conceded by Shkodran Mustafi.Posted at 87' Delay over. They are ready to continue.Posted at 86' Delay in match Shkodran Mustafi (Arsenal) because of an injury.Posted at 85' Jefferson Lerma (Bournemouth) hits the left post with a right footed shot from outside the box. Assisted by Junior Stanislas.SubstitutionPosted at 82' Substitution, Bournemouth. Lys Mousset replaces Joshua King.SubstitutionPosted at 82' Substitution, Arsenal. Aaron Ramsey replaces Alex Iwobi.Posted at 80' Attempt missed. Henrikh Mkhitaryan (Arsenal) right footed shot from outside the box is too high.Posted at 80' Attempt saved. Junior Stanislas (Bournemouth) right footed shot from the centre of the box is saved in the centre of the goal. Assisted by Charlie Daniels with a cross.SubstitutionPosted at 79' Substitution, Arsenal. Matteo Guendouzi replaces Lucas Torreira.Posted at 78' Attempt missed. Sead Kolasinac (Arsenal) left footed shot from a difficult angle on the left is close, but misses to the left. Assisted by Rob Holding.Posted at 77' Attempt blocked. Junior Stanislas (Bournemouth) right footed shot from outside the box is blocked. Assisted by Simon Francis.SubstitutionPosted at 73' Substitution, Bournemouth. Lewis Cook replaces Dan Gosling.SubstitutionPosted at 73' Substitution, Bournemouth. Junior Stanislas replaces David Brooks.Posted at 73' Foul by Alex Iwobi (Arsenal).Posted at 73' Simon Francis (Bournemouth) wins a free kick in the defensive half.Posted at 72' Attempt saved. Ryan Fraser (Bournemouth) right footed shot from outside the box is saved in the centre of the goal. Assisted by Jefferson Lerma.Posted at 70' Attempt blocked. Henrikh Mkhitaryan (Arsenal) left footed shot from a difficult angle on the left is blocked. Assisted by Alex Iwobi.Posted at 69' Attempt missed. Henrikh Mkhitaryan (Arsenal) left footed shot from a difficult angle on the left misses to the left. Assisted by Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang following a fast break.Posted at 68' Corner,  Bournemouth. Conceded by Sokratis.Posted at 68' Foul by Granit Xhaka (Arsenal).Posted at 68' Dan Gosling (Bournemouth) wins a free kick in the defensive half.Goal!Posted at 67' Goal!  Bournemouth 1, Arsenal 2. Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang (Arsenal) right footed shot from very close range to the bottom right corner. Assisted by Sead Kolasinac.BookingPosted at 66' Jefferson Lerma (Bournemouth) is shown the yellow card for a bad foul.Posted at 66' Shkodran Mustafi (Arsenal) wins a free kick on the right wing.Posted at 66' Foul by Jefferson Lerma (Bournemouth).Posted at 64' Attempt saved. David Brooks (Bournemouth) left footed shot from the right side of the box is saved in the centre of the goal. Assisted by Joshua King.Posted at 64' Attempt missed. Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang (Arsenal) right footed shot from outside the box is too high. Assisted by Henrikh Mkhitaryan.Show more updatesgoal
 
