  
                    
                        
                
                Newcastle claimed their first top-flight victory over Burnley since 1975Newcastle secured their third successive Premier League victory as they capitalised on Burnley's defensive frailties to move up to 13th in the table.Federico Fernandez's effort, which deflected in off Clarets defender Ben Mee for an own goal, and Ciaran Clark's header from a Matt Ritchie cross proved decisive for Rafael Benitez's side.Burnley had lost their past 23 top-flight matches in which they had conceded the first two goals and although Sam Vokes scored - connecting with Mee's long ball to loop a header over goalkeeper Martin Dubravka from almost 18 yards - they were unable to force an equaliser.
    
        
That would have been harsh on Newcastle, who were superior for long periods and could have added to their tally through Ritchie and substitute Joselu, who struck the post.Defeat leaves Burnley 17th in the table, one point above the relegation zone.Dyche expects questions about Burnley's poor formBurnley's defensive woe continuesWhile Burnley began the match having scored the same number of goals (12) as at this stage last term, their major problems have come at the other end of the pitch.Their success in finishing seventh in the Premier League in May was largely based on their solid defence, but those foundations have crumbled in a start littered with individual and collective errors.Clark's goal was the 27th they have conceded this season - it took until 31 March for them to concede that many in 2017-18.Both of Newcastle's first-half goals were symptomatic of those problems. Mee's own goal came after Clarets forward Chris Wood made a dreadful attempt to clear a corner under little pressure, and it was compounded when the defender diverted home a shot that appeared to be drifting wide.  Newcastle's second was another gift, with Burnley initially failing to react at a corner and then allowing Clark a free header from eight yards. Things might have been worse for the hosts but Magpies wing-back Ritchie somehow contrived to miss from two yards out in the second period after another defensive error.
                    
                        
                
                Newcastle manager Rafael Benitez said he had been able to laugh about Ritchie's miss after the matchBurnley also appear to have another problem, with former England defender Danny Mills critical of the predictable nature of their attacking play."I'm a massive fan of Sean Dyche, but you can't keep playing like that - pumping long balls up to two big lads up front," Mills told BBC Radio 5 live."They need something different. They'll score the odd goal like that but not two or three and then you're not going to dominate sides, so you'll always be under pressure. They need to change the way they play."Newcastle finding their feet After an abject start, taking three points from a possible 30 in a winless 10-game run, Newcastle have at last found their feet. Benitez's side had lost each of their past 10 Premier League games played on a Monday night.But, if the omens were not in their favour, their performance at Turf Moor was indicative of a team growing in confidence.Benitez's tactics, which included the deployment of a trio of central midfielders, enabled them to control the game. There were also solid performances from Fernandez and Fabian Schar at the heart of a reinforced rearguard.The Argentina and Switzerland defenders both arrived in a summer when a lack of investment in the transfer market led to supporter protests. But unity appears to have been temporarily restored and both played their part in this success, making 10 clearances each, alongside Clark, who made 11. Man of the match - Ciaran Clark (Newcastle)
                    
                        
                
                Republic of Ireland defender Ciaran Clark scored his second goal of the season for Newcastle and also made the most clearances of any player'Every game is like a final for us' - what they said
                    
                    
                        
                            Media playback is not supported on this device
                        
                    
                
                Burnley 1-2 Newcastle: We must keep confidence high - Rafa BenitezNewcastle manager Rafael Benitez, talking to BBC Sport: "Every game for us is like a final. Winning is massive because it gives us more confidence. There is still a long race ahead but we are doing well and hopefully we can continue that."We needed to win and to perform well. The players did it and were amazing in terms of effort, organisation and team spirit."We were working in the week trying to manage Burnley's two big centre-forwards and the players did really well."The main thing for us is to make sure we can get something out of these games. We have confidence now and the players will continue pushing and working hard."
                    
                    
                        
                            Media playback is not supported on this device
                        
                    
                
                Burnley 1-2 Newcastle: Clarets mentality not an issue - Sean DycheBurnley manager Sean Dyche, speaking to BBC Sport: "I'm frustrated that the margins that are so important in these games have gone against us."The first goal is frustrating because it is unlucky, going in off a deflection, and the second goal is a soft goal. From then on, in the main, we were very good, we deserved the goal and got back into it."The second half, after a slow start, we provided enough to get an equaliser. We created chances but now we have to take them and then lock the door. There were better signs but we need results, we know that."Burnley's bleak home form - the stats Burnley have won just one of their past nine Premier League home games (D2 L6).54.5% of Newcastle's Premier League goals this season have been headers (6/11), a league-high proportion.Newcastle's opener on three minutes 35 seconds was their earliest away Premier League goal since Yohan Cabaye scored against Sunderland in October 2012 (2:10).Since the start of 2016-17, only Lewis Dunk (4) has scored more own-goals in the Premier League than Mee (3, level with Ryan Shawcross). Clark has scored two goals in his past four Premier League appearances, as many as he managed in his previous 25. Ritchie has registered 14 league assists for Newcastle since joining before 2016-17, more than any other player for the club. Vokes' goal was scored from 17.65 yards out, the furthest distance for a headed Premier League goal since Jamie Vardy for Leicester against Sunderland in August 2015 (18.03). What's next?Burnley travel to Crystal Palace in their next Premier League match on Saturday, 1 December (15:00 GMT). Newcastle also return to league action on Saturday, 1 December when they host West Ham (15:00 GMT).Line-upsMatch StatsLive TextLine-upsBurnley20Hart2Lowton28Long6Mee3Taylor25Lennon16DefourSubstituted forHendrickat 82'minutes4Cork12BradySubstituted forBarnesat 83'minutes9Vokes11WoodSubstitutes1Heaton10Barnes13Hendrick14Gibson18Westwood26Bardsley27VydraNewcastle12Dubravka22Yedlin5Schär18Fernandez2Clark11RitchieBooked at 90mins15KenedySubstituted forHaydenat 90'minutes10Diamé4Ki Sung-yueng17Pérez9RondónSubstituted forJoseluat 71'minutesSubstitutes7Murphy8Shelvey14Hayden19Manquillo21Joselu30Atsu41WoodmanReferee:Anthony TaylorAttendance:20,628Match StatsHome TeamBurnleyAway TeamNewcastlePossessionHome56%Away44%ShotsHome14Away17Shots on TargetHome4Away3CornersHome5Away5FoulsHome6Away11Live TextPosted at   Match ends, Burnley 1, Newcastle United 2.Full TimePosted at 90'+5' Second Half ends, Burnley 1, Newcastle United 2.Posted at 90'+5' Attempt missed. Sam Vokes (Burnley) header from very close range is too high. Assisted by Charlie Taylor with a cross following a set piece situation.BookingPosted at 90'+4' Matt Ritchie (Newcastle United) is shown the yellow card for a bad foul.Posted at 90'+4' Aaron Lennon (Burnley) wins a free kick on the right wing.Posted at 90'+4' Foul by Matt Ritchie (Newcastle United).Posted at 90'+4' Attempt blocked. Ayoze Pérez (Newcastle United) right footed shot from more than 40 yards on the left wing is blocked. Assisted by Ciaran Clark.Posted at 90'+3' Charlie Taylor (Burnley) wins a free kick in the attacking half.Posted at 90'+3' Foul by Isaac Hayden (Newcastle United).Posted at 90'+2' Corner,  Burnley. Conceded by Federico Fernández.Posted at 90'+2' Attempt missed. Sam Vokes (Burnley) header from the centre of the box misses to the right. Assisted by Joe Hart.Posted at 90'+1' Ashley Barnes (Burnley) wins a free kick in the defensive half.Posted at 90'+1' Foul by Mohamed Diamé (Newcastle United).SubstitutionPosted at 90' Substitution, Newcastle United. Isaac Hayden replaces Kenedy.Posted at 89' Kevin Long (Burnley) wins a free kick in the defensive half.Posted at 89' Foul by Kenedy (Newcastle United).Posted at 88' Attempt blocked. Kenedy (Newcastle United) left footed shot from the right side of the box is blocked. Assisted by Ayoze Pérez.Posted at 86' Delay over. They are ready to continue.Posted at 85' Delay in match Fabian Schär (Newcastle United) because of an injury.Posted at 85' Foul by Ashley Barnes (Burnley).Posted at 85' Fabian Schär (Newcastle United) wins a free kick in the defensive half.Posted at 84' Attempt missed. Ashley Barnes (Burnley) left footed shot from outside the box misses to the right. Assisted by Ben Mee.SubstitutionPosted at 83' Substitution, Burnley. Ashley Barnes replaces Robbie Brady.SubstitutionPosted at 82' Substitution, Burnley. Jeff Hendrick replaces Steven Defour.Posted at 80' Foul by Chris Wood (Burnley).Posted at 80' Fabian Schär (Newcastle United) wins a free kick in the defensive half.Posted at 80' Attempt blocked. Joselu (Newcastle United) left footed shot from the left side of the six yard box is blocked. Assisted by Fabian Schär with a cross.Posted at 80' Attempt missed. Fabian Schär (Newcastle United) right footed shot from outside the box misses to the left.Posted at 80' Joselu (Newcastle United) hits the right post with a left footed shot from the centre of the box. Assisted by Ayoze Pérez with a through ball.Posted at 77' Corner,  Newcastle United. Conceded by Ben Mee.Posted at 77' Attempt blocked. Joselu (Newcastle United) left footed shot from the centre of the box is blocked. Assisted by Matt Ritchie with a cross.Posted at 75' Attempt missed. Chris Wood (Burnley) left footed shot from the centre of the box is too high. Assisted by Aaron Lennon.Posted at 73' Attempt missed. Robbie Brady (Burnley) right footed shot from outside the box misses to the left.Posted at 72' Charlie Taylor (Burnley) wins a free kick in the attacking half.Posted at 72' Foul by DeAndre Yedlin (Newcastle United).Posted at 71' Attempt missed. Matthew Lowton (Burnley) right footed shot from outside the box misses to the left following a corner.Posted at 71' Corner,  Burnley. Conceded by DeAndre Yedlin.Posted at 71' Attempt blocked. Chris Wood (Burnley) left footed shot from very close range is blocked. Assisted by Robbie Brady.SubstitutionPosted at 71' Substitution, Newcastle United. Joselu replaces Salomón Rondón.Posted at 70' Jack Cork (Burnley) wins a free kick on the right wing.Show more updatesgoal
 
