
                        
            
        
            
    
                    
                      
        
            
    
                    
                
                
                    
                    
                        
            
                            
                                
                              Books
                    
                        
            Handwritten gems from Pedro Corrêa do Lago’s collection
                

            
         

                            
                Pedro Corrêa do Lago has the world’s largest private collection of autographed letters and manuscripts. In our video, he reveals unseen gems that are ‘frozen moments in time’.
            
                
                                
                    
                    
                    
                     
                    
                    
                    
                        
            
                
                

                By Fiona Macdonald
                20 November 2018
            
            
        

                        
                        
                            “When you hold the letter of someone you admire and who was dead before you were born, I think it’s the closest connection you can have with that sort of person. Because you’re holding a little frozen moment of their life – they may have spent… a long time if it’s a manuscript with that piece of paper, they touched it.”Pedro Corrêa do Lago has one of the largest private collections of autographed letters and manuscripts in the world. It includes tens of thousands of handwritten documents from 5000 of the most important figures in the fields of art, literature, history, science, music and entertainment since 1153. They have just been brought together in a new book, The Magic of Handwriting.
    
        View image of (Credit: Pedro Corrêa do Lago collection)
    There’s a marble order sketched by Michelangelo; Henri de Toulouse-Lautrec’s first and last known letters; Sigmund Freud’s bill for 20 sessions; a letter from Emily Dickinson; Puccini’s score for Girl of the Golden West; drafts for In Search of Lost Time by Marcel Proust; a sketch of the Tramp’s accessories by Charlie Chaplin; and a letter from Mary Shelley a few months after the death of her husband Percy Shelley, asking Italian authorities to hand over the boat in which he drowned and all its contents. There’s also a letter from Wolfgang Mozart to his father Leopold, mentioning that he’s been dating a young singer – something that might have troubled Leopold, who wanted his son to focus instead on his studies.Corrêa do Lago tells BBC Culture what it’s like to hold a piece of handwritten history in his hands. “It’s the moment of creation that is materialised in that piece of paper.”Click the play button above to watch the video.The Magic of Handwriting: The Pedro Corrêa do Lago Collection is out now, published by Taschen.If you would like to comment on this story or anything else you have seen on BBC Culture, head over to our Facebook page or message us on Twitter.And if you liked this story, sign up for the weekly bbc.com features newsletter, called “If You Only Read 6 Things This Week”. A handpicked selection of stories from BBC Future, Culture, Capital and Travel, delivered to your inbox every Friday.
                        

                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                        
            
