
    Properties 'taking longer to sell'

        

    
        
                
                Image copyright
                 Getty Images
                
            
            
        Properties are taking longer to sell than a year ago, analysis suggests, at an average of more than three months in urban areas of the UK.Homes in cities and major towns were on the market for 102 days on average before being sold or put under offer.This was six days longer than in 2017, according to the Centre for Economics and Business Research (CEBR).Selling periods ranged from an average of 39 days in Edinburgh to 131 days in Blackpool.Completion of the deal may take a lot longer than this, owing to legal requirements and the practicalities of moving dates.
    
        
Where does rent hit young people the hardest in Britain?
The people with more stuff than they have room for
The research for Post Office Money found that properties in Glasgow also sold quickly, at an average 48 days. Belfast and Swansea recorded the biggest fall in the time properties spent on the market - at 17 and 14 days less respectively than last year.In contrast, properties in Bristol and Luton were taking 10 and 14 days longer respectively to sell than last year.Homes in London, where the market has slowed considerably recently, took an average of 126 days to sell.The report suggested affordability constraints had hit demand in these areas, leading to longer selling times.
    
        
            
                
                    Where can you afford to live? Try our housing calculator to see where you could rent or buy
                    
                        This interactive content requires an internet connection and a modern browser.
                        View affordability data by UK region
                        View  affordability data by local authority area
                    
                    
                        
                            
                                    
                                        
                                            Do you want to buy or rent?
                                            
                                                    Buy
                                                
                                                
                                                    Rent
                                                
                                            
                                    
                                        
                                            How many bedrooms?
                                            Use the buttons to increase or decrease the number of bedrooms: minimum one, maximum four. Alternatively, enter a
                                                number into the text input
                                            
                                                Decrease number of bedrooms
                                                
                                                    
                                    
                                                Enter number of bedrooms
                                                1
                                    
                                                Increase number of bedrooms
                                                
                                                    
                                            
                                        
                                    
                                        
                                            How much is your deposit?
                                            Enter your deposit below or adjust the deposit amount using the slider
                                            The national average is 
                                            
                                                More about deposits
                                            
                                            
                                                Enter deposit amount
                                                    £
                                                
                                                
                                            Adjust deposit amount
                                            
                                                Info
                                                
                                                    Return to 'How much is your deposit?'
                                                
                                                
                                                    This calculator assumes you need a deposit of at least 5% of the value of the property to get a mortgage. The average deposit
                                                    for UK first-time buyers is .
                                                
                                            
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                            How much can you pay monthly?
                                            Enter your monthly payment below or adjust the payment amount using the slider
                                            The national average is 
                                            
                                                More about monthly payments
                                            
                                            
                                                Enter monthly payment amount
                                                    £
                                                
                                                
                                            Adjust monthly payment amount
                                            
                                                Info
                                                
                                                    Return to 'How much can you pay monthly?'
                                                
                                                
                                                    Your monthly payments are what you can afford to pay each month. Think about your monthly income and take off bills, council
                                                    tax and living expenses. The average rent figure is for England and Wales.
                                                
                                            
                                        
                                    
                            
                            
                                
                                    Your results
                                    
                                        
                                            -
                                        
                                        
                                            Amount of the United Kingdom that has housing you can afford
                                        
                                    
                                    
                                        
                                            Range of affordable areas includes:
                                            Armagh City, Banbridge and Craigavon  and Belfast 
                                        
                                        No affordable areas
                                    
                                
                            
                            
                                
                                    Explore the map in detail below
                                
                            
                        
                        
                            Search the UK for more details about a local area
                            
                                
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            
                                                Search for counties
                                                
                                            
                                        
                                        
                                    
                                
                                    
                                
                            
                            
                            
                                
                                    
                                        
                                        No data
                                    
                                    
                                        
                                            low (£)
                                            
                                                
                                                
                                                
                                            
                                            high (£££)
                                        
                                        Affordable
                                    
                                    
                                        
                                        Unaffordable
                                    
                                
                                
                                    
                                        What does affordable mean?
                                        
                                        
                                    
                                    
                                        You have a big enough deposit and your monthly payments are high enough.
                                        The prices are based on the local market. If there are 100 properties of the right size in an area and they are placed in price order with the cheapest first, the “low-end” of the market will be the 25th property, "mid-priced" is the 50th and "high-end” will be the 75th.
                                    
                                
                            
                            
                        
                    
                    
                
            
        
    




