
    Ariana Grande hits out at Piers Morgan over Little Mix nude row

        

    
        
                
                Image copyright
                 PA/Getty
                
            
            
            Image caption
                
                    The singer said Morgan criticised "young, beautiful, successful women" to be relevant
                
            Pop star Ariana Grande has hit out at Piers Morgan with a series of tweets in defence of women who chose to show off their bodies.TV presenter Morgan, who frequently courts controversy with his comments, has hit headlines for mocking girl band Little Mix for posing naked.In a morning television segment, Morgan mocked their "feminist statement" and accused them of trying to sell records.After Grande was dragged into the row on Wednesday, she sharply rebuked him."I use my talent AND my sexuality all the time because i choose to. women can be sexual AND talented. naked and dignified. it's OUR choice," Grande tweeted.
    
        
How did the row start?Piers Morgan is known for being a provocateur on issues like this.During a debate about the image and Little Mix on ITV's Good Morning Britain earlier this week, he said the girl band were using a naked photo shoot for attention and accused them "using sex to sell records".Little Mix rate seven years of photos
Ariana Grande addresses boyfriends in new song 
The photograph, which was used to promote their new song Strip, showed the band stripped back with insults written all over their bodies. 
                
                
                
                
                
                 Image copyright
                 Rankin / Syco
                
            
            
            Image caption
                
                    The lyrics to the song encourage fans to ignore negative comments on social media
                
            The band told the BBC's Mark Savage that the image represents all of their flaws and "how far they've come" on a journey toward "self-love".The lyrics of their latest song include lines like: "Finally love me naked, sexiest when I'm confident."But Morgan made it clear he didn't buy their message of body positivity."Here's a great idea, girls - if you want to really empower yourselves, get naked and put the word slut all over your body," Morgan said on the programme, before showing a mock photo-shopped image of him posing with insults all over his body."Why don't we stop pretending that getting your kit off is feminist empowerment?" he added, citing other celebrities who have posed nude including Kim Kardashian.The row between the band and Morgan then escalated further when member Jesy Nelson told the BBC's Nick Grimshaw on Radio 1 she was not surprised by his comments and posted pictures on her Instagram account of herself posing in her underwear.
                
                
                
                
                
                 Image copyright
                 Getty Images
                
            
            
            Image caption
                
                    The band photographed with Ariana at the 2013 Nickelodeon Kids' Choice Awards
                
            The next day, Morgan said on the programme: "Oh Jesy you've let yourself down love" before demanding a public apology from the band. He also tweeted that the 27-year-old looked "ridiculous" and suggested the band had stolen the idea for the photograph from the Dixie Chicks. 
    
        
            Skip Twitter post  by @piersmorgan
            
                Hey @LittleMix - when are you going to admit you stole this idea from @dixiechicks? pic.twitter.com/dLRX2TMv2k— Piers Morgan (@piersmorgan) November 20, 2018

            Report
            
            End of Twitter post  by @piersmorgan
        
    


                
                
                
                
                
            
            
        So why is Ariana now involved?In recent days, Morgan had also accused the Ellen DeGeneres show of hypocrisy for a segment where she "celebrated" images of handsome men, including some partially clothed.Ariana Grande's mother, Joan, waded into the row by quoting Morgan's tweet about Dixie Chicks and saying: "Didn't your mother ever teach you, if you have nothing nice to say, don't say it!"The presenter then replied, doubling down on his accusation that the band were using their nudity to sell records, before accusing her daughter Ariana of doing the same.
    
        
            Skip Twitter post 2 by @piersmorgan
            
                Hi Joan, my mother taught me to speak my mind & never be afraid to express honestly held opinion. Ellen's a hypocrite - and as for Little Mix, I'd just prefer they use their talent to sell records rather than their nudity. As your own daughter does...! https://t.co/nCQAsIgoVG— Piers Morgan (@piersmorgan) November 21, 2018

            Report
            
            End of Twitter post 2 by @piersmorgan
        
    


                
                
                
                
                
            
            
        Joan issued a scathing reply, saying: "Trash talk for the sake of denigrating women doing their jobs is at best misogynistic and at worst undignified and ignorant!"Grande then clapped back at Morgan with a series of tweets of her own about women's right to choose to show their bodies off.
    
        
            Skip Twitter post  by @ArianaGrande
            
                Ellen is an incredible & kind human being.. I use my talent AND my sexuality all the time because i choose to. women can be sexual AND talented. naked and dignified. it’s OUR choice. 🖤 & we will keep fighting til people understand. i say this w all due respect but thank u, next. https://t.co/wSknRSlJN8— Ariana Grande (@ArianaGrande) November 21, 2018

            Report
            
            End of Twitter post  by @ArianaGrande
        
    


                
                
                
                
                
            
            
        The singer also accused him of hypocrisy while supporting the band, who have toured with her and performed at her One Love Manchester concert.
    
        
            Skip Twitter post 2 by @ArianaGrande
            
                keep fighting the fight divas @LittleMix 🖤 your sisters have your back— Ariana Grande (@ArianaGrande) November 21, 2018

            Report
            
            End of Twitter post 2 by @ArianaGrande
        
    

"i look forward to the day you realize there are other ways to go about making yourself relevant than to criticize young, beautiful, successful women for everything they do," Ariana added.
    
        
            Skip Twitter post 3 by @ArianaGrande
            
                also @piersmorgan, i look forward to the day you realize there are other ways to go about making yourself relevant than to criticize young, beautiful, successful women for everything they do. i think that’ll be a beautiful thing for you and your career or what’s left of it. 🖤— Ariana Grande (@ArianaGrande) November 21, 2018

            Report
            
            End of Twitter post 3 by @ArianaGrande
        
    

She ended the string of messages with (a slightly more explicit version) of her now-trademark phrase from her latest song: "thank u, next"Ellen and Little Mix both shared their support.
    
        
            Skip Twitter post  by @TheEllenShow
            
                I ❤️ you, @JoanGrande and @ArianaGrande, and everyone in this world who celebrates all people inclusively.— Ellen DeGeneres (@TheEllenShow) November 21, 2018

            Report
            
            End of Twitter post  by @TheEllenShow
        
    


    
        
            Skip Twitter post  by @LittleMix
            
                thank you ♥️ what we do with our bodies is our choice and we felt liberated owning the negative words thrown at us as women. We’ll never stop talking/writing music about issues that affect so many women around the world. We have a voice to use it! we love you Ari 🖤 the girls x— Little Mix (@LittleMix) November 21, 2018

            Report
            
            End of Twitter post  by @LittleMix
        
    

But Piers Morgan remained defiant with tweets of his own.
    
        
            Skip Twitter post 3 by @piersmorgan
            
                Hi Ariana! How lovely to hear from you so soon after your mother. Of course, women can do what they like  - but if they/you use nudity to sell records to impressionable young female fans, I'll continue to call them/you out on it. All due respect, but thank YOU. Next... https://t.co/PpRK5Wqs92— Piers Morgan (@piersmorgan) November 21, 2018

            Report
            
            End of Twitter post 3 by @piersmorgan
        
    


                
                
                
                
                
            
            
        
    
        
            Skip Twitter post 4 by @piersmorgan
            
                Now now, young lady - my career's doing just fine thanks. For the record, I criticise/praise everyone - male, female, gender-fluid. Indeed, I've written columns praising AND criticising you, and you deserved both. https://t.co/vfsDNqzYLl— Piers Morgan (@piersmorgan) November 21, 2018

            Report
            
            End of Twitter post 4 by @piersmorgan
        
    


                
                
                
                
                
            
            
        He then asked if her screensaver was him posing naked, before asking her to come on his Good Morning Britain show to "settle things".While that's unlikely to happen, Morgan seemed very pleased with the outcome of the row. As he probably intended, his name was trending worldwide on Twitter after her tweets.
    
        
            Skip Twitter post 5 by @piersmorgan
            
                Thanks ⁦@ArianaGrande⁩ ! 😂😂 pic.twitter.com/jHKi0gX2WJ— Piers Morgan (@piersmorgan) November 21, 2018

            Report
            
            End of Twitter post 5 by @piersmorgan
        
    


                
                
                
                
                
            
            
        

