
    Stan Lee: Stars pay tribute to Marvel Comics pioneer, dead at 95

        

    
        
            Media playback is unsupported on your device
      
        
          
      
        Media captionThe life and career of Stan LeeTributes are being paid to American writer and former president of Marvel Comics Stan Lee, who has died at the age of 95.Lee created The Fantastic Four for Marvel Comics in 1961 and went on to create titles including Spider-Man and The Incredible Hulk.Actor Chris Evans, best known for playing Marvel's Captain America, wrote "there will never be another Stan Lee".X-Men star Hugh Jackman said "we've lost a creative genius." 
    
        
            Skip Twitter post  by @RealHughJackman
            
                We’ve lost a creative genius. Stan Lee was a pioneering force in the superhero universe. I’m proud to have been a small part of his legacy and .... to have helped bring one of his characters to life. #StanLee #Wolverine pic.twitter.com/iOdefi7iYz— Hugh Jackman (@RealHughJackman) November 12, 2018

            Report
            
            End of Twitter post  by @RealHughJackman
        
    


                
                
                
                
                
            
            
        Robert Downey Jr, who played Iron Man, simply wrote: "I owe it all to you, Rest in Peace Stan."
    
        

    
        
            Skip Instagram post  by robertdowneyjr
                    View this post on Instagram           I owe it all to you,,, Rest In Peace Stan... #MCU #Excelsior #legend #rip #stanlee #TeamStark A post shared by  Robert Downey Jr. (@robertdowneyjr) on Nov 12, 2018 at 11:26am PST
            Report
            End of Instagram post  by robertdowneyjr
        
    
    
        
            
                
                         Image Copyright robertdowneyjr
                        robertdowneyjr
                    
                    Report
                
        
    


                
                
                
                
                
            
            
        Kevin Feige, the producer and president of Marvel Studios, tweeted: "No one has had more of an impact on my career and everything we do at Marvel Studios than Stan Lee."
    
        
            Skip Twitter post  by @Kevfeige
            
                No one has had more of an impact on my career and everything we do at Marvel Studios than Stan Lee. Stan leaves an extraordinary legacy that will outlive us all. Our thoughts are with his daughter, his family, and his millions of fans.  #ThankYouStan  #Excelsior!— Kevin Feige (@Kevfeige) November 12, 2018

            Report
            
            End of Twitter post  by @Kevfeige
        
    


                
                
                
                
                
            
            
        The legendary comic book author died at Cedars Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles, according to a family lawyer.
                
                
                
                
                
            
            
        Tom Hardy, who stars in Venom, the latest film based on a Marvel Comics character, shared a photo of Lee on set, via Instagram.
    
        
            Skip Instagram post  by tomhardy
                    View this post on Instagram           With the greatest of respect ❤️ A post shared by  Tom Hardy (@tomhardy) on Nov 12, 2018 at 11:58am PST
            Report
            End of Instagram post  by tomhardy
        
    
    
        
            
                
                         Image Copyright tomhardy
                        tomhardy
                    
                    Report
                
        
    


                
                
                
                
                
            
            
        Sir Patrick Stewart told Radio 4's Today programme he had met Lee "numerous times"."He loved to visit the set and he became famous, like Hitchcock, for appearing in his movies," said the actor, who played Professor X in the X-Men series."He created flawed heroes and it was one of the things that made X-Men so interesting for all of us who worked on them," he continued."We were always very much aware that no matter what our superpowers were, we were human beings, we could make mistakes and things could go wrong. It was that quality which gave humanity to all of Stan's work." Evangeline Lilly, who portrayed Ant Man's superhero partner, the Wasp, shared a tribute on Twitter.
    
        
            Skip Twitter post  by @EvangelineLilly
            
                Stan...more than a master of stories, you always seemed like a master of living.  I will look to you for inspiration for the rest of my life.  You live on. xoxo Your Wasp.#liveon #StanLee pic.twitter.com/JRA2aRM3bG— Evangeline Lilly (@EvangelineLilly) November 12, 2018

            Report
            
            End of Twitter post  by @EvangelineLilly
        
    


                
                
                
                
                
            
            
        And Deadpool actor Ryan Reynolds posted: "Damn... RIP Stan. Thanks for everything."Tom Holland, who is Marvel's latest Spider-Man, wrote that he "was indebted" to Lee.
    
        
            Skip Instagram post  by tomholland2013
                    View this post on Instagram           How many millions of us are indebted to this guy, none more so than me. The father of Marvel has made so many people so incredibly happy. What a life and what a thing to have achieved. Rest in peace Stan A post shared by  ✌️ (@tomholland2013) on Nov 12, 2018 at 11:54am PST
            Report
            End of Instagram post  by tomholland2013
        
    
    
        
            
                
                         Image Copyright tomholland2013
                        tomholland2013
                    
                    Report
                
        
    


                
                
                
                
                
            
            
        Other stars to pay tribute include Angela Bassett, Zoe Saldana, Jamie Chung, Josh Groban, Jamie Lee Curtis, Chris Hemsworth, Benedict Cumberbatch, Chris Pratt and Josh Brolin.Shane Duffy, CEO of Lee's Pow! Entertainment, praised the "father of pop culture" for inventing "universes of characters".He was, Duffy continued, "a true iconic pioneer with no comparable second."The Walt Disney Company, which bought Marvel Entertainment in 2009, lauded Lee's  "unmatchable" life and career in a statement."Every time you open a Marvel comic, Stan will be there," it said. "Please join us today in remembering Stan 'The Man' Lee."Rival publisher DC Comics also tweeted a tribute.
    
        
            Skip Twitter post  by @DCComics
            
                He changed the way we look at heroes, and modern comics will always bear his indelible mark. His infectious enthusiasm reminded us why we all fell in love with these stories in the first place. Excelsior, Stan.— DC (@DCComics) November 12, 2018

            Report
            
            End of Twitter post  by @DCComics
        
    


                
                
                
                
                
            
            
        Broadcaster Jonathan Ross remembered Lee as "an incredible showman" who had "touched so many millions with his work"."He was also a very warm, very kind and very nice human being," Ross told BBC Breakfast.Lee's wife, Joan, died in 2017, also aged 95. He is survived by his daughter, JC Lee.Speaking to celebrity news website TMZ, JC Lee said her father was "the greatest, most decent man".She told Reuters: "He felt an obligation to his fans to keep creating."In recent years Lee had periodically suffered from illnesses, including a bout of pneumonia.
                
                
                
                
                
                 Image copyright
                 Getty Images
                
            
            
            Image caption
                
                    Stan Lee was born Stanley Lieber in 1922
                
            He was known for making a cameo in almost every Marvel film. Despite leaving the Marvel company in 1972, he remained chairman emeritus.The genius of superhero creator Stan Lee
Stan Lee: 'You are my superhero'
'Marvel muse' Joan Lee dies at 95
On Sunday - Veterans Day - his official Facebook page shared a photograph of Lee in the Army, noting that his official title during World War II was Playwright.
    
        
            Skip Facebook post  by Stan Lee
            Thank you to all of America's veterans for your service. Fun fact: Stan’s official US Army title during WW2 was ‘Playwright.’ #VeteransDayPosted by Stan Lee on Sunday, 11 November 2018
            Report
            End of Facebook post  by Stan Lee
        
    


                
                
                
                
                
            
            
        Who was Stan Lee?Lee was born in 1922 to working-class Jewish immigrants from Romania. He began working at the comics section of Martin Goodman's Timely Publications - a company that would eventually transform into Marvel Comics - and became comics editor there at age 18.For years Lee wrote only simple comics, focusing on crime stories, horrors and westerns and aimed at young readers.Aged 40, he decided to give up on comics. But his wife Joan urged him to create the characters he always wanted to write as his comic swansong.In 1961, Lee and artist Jack Kirby created the Fantastic Four - compelling characters with individual personalities and relatable problems. Timely Publications was renamed Marvel, and the golden age of comic books began. 
                
                
                
                
                
                 Image copyright
                 Getty Images
                
            
            
            Image caption
                
                    Black Panther (portrayed in film by actor Chadwick Boseman, right) was one of the first black mainstream superheroes in America
                
            Many Marvel characters were groundbreaking at the time. For example, Black Panther was the first black superhero featured in a mainstream US comic.Other characters he created include the Silver Surfer, the X-Men, Iron Man and Doctor Strange.Lee was also known for giving artists their due credit. Kirby, Frank Miller, John Romita and others achieved cult status in their own right.In its heyday, Marvel sold 50 million copies a year. Until he retired from editing in 1971, Lee wrote all the copy for Marvel's covers.
                
                
                
                
                
            
            
        Follow us on Facebook, on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts, or on Instagram at bbcnewsents. If you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk.What are your memories of Stan Lee? If you are willing to share your experiences please email haveyoursay@bbc.co.ukPlease include a contact number if you are willing to speak to a BBC journalist. You can also contact us in the following ways:WhatsApp: +44 7555 173285

Tweet: @BBC_HaveYourSay

Text an SMS or MMS to 61124 

Please read our terms & conditions and privacy policy



