
    Buzzcocks singer Pete Shelley dies at 63

        

    
        
            Media playback is unsupported on your device
      
        
          
      
        Media captionPete Shelley co-founded the Buzzcocks, one of the UK's best known punk bands in the 70sBuzzcocks lead singer Pete Shelley has died at 63 of a suspected heart attack. The punk band are best known for their hit, Ever Fallen in Love (With Someone You Shouldn't've). Their management told the BBC that Shelley died on Thursday in Estonia where he was living.BBC music correspondent Lizo Mzimba said Buzzcocks, who formed in Bolton in the 1970s, were regarded as more polished, but musically no less influential, than the Sex Pistols.The band have tweeted saying Shelley was "one of the UK's most influential and prolific songwriters and co-founder of the seminal original punk band Buzzcocks".
    
        
His music inspired generations of musicians over a five-decade career with his band and as a solo artist, they said.In pictures: Buzzcocks' Pete ShelleyListen: Pete Shelley recalls the 70sThe Charlatans' singer Tim Burgess said Shelley's "perfect three-minute pop songs" were "the soundtrack to being a teenager".
    
        
            Skip Twitter post  by @Tim_Burgess
            
                Pete Shelley wrote perfect three minute pop songs. The soundtrack to being a teenager. You’ll be missed Pete but you’ll be remembered for a long long time for your brilliant music https://t.co/bt03fGbcgd— Tim Burgess (@Tim_Burgess) December 6, 2018

            Report
            
            End of Twitter post  by @Tim_Burgess
        
    

Teenage Fanclub singer Norman Blake tweeted how important Shelley's songs had been in his youth, and remained so today.
    
        
            Skip Twitter post  by @normanblake
            
                not been on here for a while, but I can't not mark the passing of Pete Shelley. I love(d) Buzzcocks. His songs were important to me when I was a young man and they still are to me now. Thank you Pete and R.I.P. You will be missed.— Norman Blake (@normanblake) December 6, 2018

            Report
            
            End of Twitter post  by @normanblake
        
    

And singer Tracey Thorn, formerly of Everything But The Girl, said Shelley had been an "amazing songwriter".
    
        
            Skip Twitter post  by @tracey_thorn
            
                Oh God but I loved Buzzcocks. And Pete Shelley was an amazing songwriter. "But after all life's only death's recompense." RIP ♥️♥️ pic.twitter.com/vAAg7Jui52— Tracey Thorn (@tracey_thorn) December 6, 2018

            Report
            
            End of Twitter post  by @tracey_thorn
        
    

The author Neil Gaiman tweeted "part of my youth dies with him".
                
                
                
                
                
                 Image copyright
                 Fin Costello/Getty Images
                
            
            
            Image caption
                
                    Steve Diggle, John Maher, Pete Shelley and Steve Garvey, left to right, in a 1978 photoshoot
                
            Music critic Stephen Thomas Erlewine said Buzzcocks were one of the most influential bands to emerge in the initial wave of punk rock, with echoes of their music in everyone from Hüsker Dü to Nirvana."The Buzzcocks were inspired by the Sex Pistols' energy, yet they didn't copy the Pistols' angry political stance," he wrote in AllMusic."Instead, they brought that intense, brilliant energy to the three-minute pop song. Shelley's alternately funny and anguished lyrics about adolescence and love were some of the best and smartest of his era."
            

