
    Mark Hamill questions Luke Skywalker lightsaber auction

        

    
        
                
                Image copyright
                 Dave J Hogan/Getty Images
                
            
            
            Image caption
                
                    Star Wars actor Mark Hamill says there was not one original lightsaber, but many
                
            Star Wars actor Mark Hamill has questioned the sale of a lightsaber billed as his character's "original" at a Hollywood auction. Profiles in History's Blockbuster Hollywood Treasures auction will be held in Los Angeles later in December. Their website lists one of the lots as "The original Mark Hamill 'Luke Skywalker' lightsaber", estimated to sell for up to $200,000 (£157,000).But on Twitter, Mr Hamill explained it may not be a one-off. "Be Advised," the actor wrote, "There was no ONE lightsaber I used in the films, but many, MANY, both for myself & my stunt-double". He ended the tweet with the hashtag, #BuyerBeware.
    
        
The BBC has reached out to the auction house for comment.
    
        
            Skip Twitter post  by @HamillHimself
            
                Be Advised-There was no ONE lightsaber I used in the films, but many, MANY, both for myself & my stunt-double. Multiple duplicate back-up props are commonplace during production-When the handle ridges were cutting my hands, they even made a few w/ soft sponge ridges! #BuyerBeware https://t.co/C6Tv4TGIPy— Mark Hamill (@HamillHimself) December 4, 2018

            Report
            
            End of Twitter post  by @HamillHimself
        
    


                
                
                
                
                
            
            
        A press release issued by Profiles in History listed a number of pieces of Star Wars memorabilia up for sale. Aside from the lightsaber - a type of weapon used in the film series - a pair of hands belonging to robot character C-3PO and a pilot helmet signed by cast members are also up for sale. 
                
                
                
                
                
                 Image copyright
                 Profiles in History Auctions/Reuters
                
            
            
            Image caption
                
                    The lightsaber, a type of weapon used in the Star Wars films, is estimated to sell for up to $200,000 (£157,000).
                
            Memorabilia from other films will also be sold at the auction, including lots from the Indiana Jones, James Bond, Star Trek, Back to the Future and Terminator franchises. The sale is scheduled to take place from 11-13 December at the Paley Centre in Beverly Hills. 
                
                
                
                
                
            
            
        You may also like:Why your Star Wars memorabilia could be worth a fortune
Han Solo 'blaster' fetches $550,000
Star Wars jacket expected to fetch £1m

                
                
                
                
                
            
            
        

