
    XXXTentacion's posthumous album Skins is released

        

    
        
                
                Image copyright
                 Getty Images
                
            
            
            Image caption
                
                    XXXTentacion's last album has gone platinum in the US since his death
                
            A posthumous XXXTentacion album has been released, almost six months after the controversial rapper was shot dead.Skins features 10 tracks - including a single, One Minute, featuring Kanye West - but is only 19 minutes long.XXXTentacion was shot and killed in Florida in June at the age of 20.Skins becomes the rapper's third studio album and follows ?, which debuted at number one on the US Billboard 200 in March and has reached platinum status since his death.
                
                
                
                
                
                 Image copyright
                 Getty Images
                
            
            
            Image caption
                
                    West is no stranger to controversy and is a vocal supporter of XXXTentacion
                
            XXXTentacion's personal life was plagued by allegations of domestic violence. He was facing 15 felony charges at the time of his death, including aggravated battery of a pregnant woman, domestic battery by strangulation and witness tampering.
    
        
In October, audio emerged of the rapper apparently admitting to assaulting his ex-girlfriend and stabbing nine people.XXXTentacion: The troubled talent of a volatile rap star
XXXTentacion and the problem of separating art from its artist
Despite its title, the Kanye West track is the longest on the new album, clocking in at three minutes, 17 seconds.West opens the song saying: "So much hate at the top, it's a lonely place."And he later says: "Now your name is tainted by the claims they paintin'/The defendant is guilty, no one blames the plaintiff."The lyrics have led fans to suggest West is not only directly addressing the charges against the late rapper, but also defending himself against criticism he has faced.The controversy hasn't affected the support from XXXTentacion's passionate fanbase, who have been sharing their thoughts about the new album on Twitter.
    
        
            Skip Twitter post  by @varneydavampire
            
                finished listening to #SKINS , damn. we really lost a unique lyrical artist. thank you xxxtentacion for your art. i'll always appreciate it 💔 pic.twitter.com/VtYgWIqdko— 𝖌𝖑𝖚𝖒 (@varneydavampire) December 7, 2018

            Report
            
            End of Twitter post  by @varneydavampire
        
    

Skins also includes the previously released single Bad.Fans also praised the second track Guardian Angel, which features a sample of the 2017 song Jocelyn Flores played in reverse. The song is dedicated to Jocelyn Amparo Flores, a 16-year-old fan who went to Florida to meet the rapper and committed suicide during the trip. 
    
        
            Skip Twitter post  by @Nerdround
            
                When you realize XXXTentacion's Guardian Angel beat on Skins is Jocelyn Flores reversed pic.twitter.com/kh1fzaqTE8— Ricky Rodriguez (@Nerdround) December 7, 2018

            Report
            
            End of Twitter post  by @Nerdround
        
    


                
                
                
                
                
            
            
        Follow us on Facebook, on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts, or on Instagram at bbcnewsents. If you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk.
            

