
    Oscars 2019: Kevin Hart quits as host amid tweets row

        

    
        
                
                Image copyright
                 AFP
                
            
            
            Image caption
                
                    Kevin Hart: "I sincerely apologise to the LGBTQ community"
                
            US comedian and actor Kevin Hart says he has stepped down from hosting the 2019 Oscars following a controversy over homophobic tweets.He said he did not want to be a distraction and that he was "sorry he had hurt people".The choice of Hart for host was only announced on Tuesday.But tweets from a decade ago emerged of apparent anti-gay slurs, sparking calls for the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences to drop him.Kevin Hart had said hosting the Oscars was "a goal on my list for a long time".
    
        
But in a tweet late on Thursday he said he had chosen to step down "because I do not want to be a distraction on a night that should be celebrated by so many amazing talented artists".He said: "I sincerely apologise to the LGBTQ community for my insensitive words of the past."
    
        
            Skip Twitter post  by @KevinHart4real
            
                I'm sorry that I hurt people.. I am evolving and want to continue to do so. My goal is to bring people together not tear us apart.  Much love & appreciation to the Academy.  I hope we can meet again.— Kevin Hart (@KevinHart4real) December 7, 2018

            Report
            
            End of Twitter post  by @KevinHart4real
        
    


                
                
                
                
                
            
            
        When he revealed that he would be host, Hart said it was the "opportunity of a lifetime for me as a comedian" and that "my mom is smiling from ear to ear right now".Earlier on Thursday it had appeared he would try to ride out the storm.In an Instagram post he spoke out against the "negative energy" of the criticism, saying "stop searching for reasons to be angry".He said he was almost 40 years old and was "in love with the man I'm becoming".
    
        
            Skip Instagram post  by kevinhart4real
                    View this post on Instagram           Stop looking for reasons to be negative...Stop searching for reasons to be angry....I swear I wish you guys could see/feel/understand the mental place that I am in. I am truly happy people....there is nothing that you can do to change that...NOTHING. I work hard on a daily basis to spread positivity to all....with that being said. If u want to search my history or past and anger yourselves with what u find that is fine with me. I’m almost 40 years old and I’m in love with the man that I am becoming. You LIVE and YOU LEARN & YOU GROW & YOU MATURE. I live to Love....Please take your negative energy and put it into something constructive. Please....What’s understood should never have to be said. I LOVE EVERYBODY.....ONCE AGAIN EVERYBODY. If you choose to not believe me then that’s on you....Have a beautiful day A post shared by  Kevin Hart (@kevinhart4real) on Dec 6, 2018 at 3:20pm PST
            Report
            End of Instagram post  by kevinhart4real
        
    
    
        
            
                
                         Image Copyright kevinhart4real
                        kevinhart4real
                    
                    Report
                
        
    


                
                
                
                
                
            
            
        In a later video he said he had been called by the academy and asked to apologise or another host would be found. "I chose to pass. I passed on the apology," he said, repeating that the issue of the tweets had been addressed in the past.He appeared to later change his mind and issue an apology as he stood down.The role has thrown up problems for a number of past hosts and the Hollywood Reporter has called it "the least wanted job in Hollywood".The Oscars will take place in Los Angeles on 24 February 2019.
            

