
    The hospitals that 'never treat patients on time'

        
        By Nick Triggle and Christine Jeavans
        BBC News
    

        

    
        
                
                Image copyright
                 Ridofranz/Getty Images
                
            
            
        Nearly one in five local hospital services are consistently failing to hit any of their key waiting-time targets, BBC analysis shows.Twenty-nine hospital trusts and boards out of 157 have not hit a single target for a whole year.Northern Ireland is struggling the most - all five trusts have failed their key targets for A&E, cancer and routine operations every time in 2017-18.NHS leaders said the NHS was facing a very difficult winter.
    
        
            
                
                    
                
            
        
        
            
                
                    
                        
                        
                            
                                Search for a health trust or postcode
                                    
                                    
                                        
                                            
                                                
                                                    Search for your nearest health trusts
                                                    
                                                
                                            
                                            
                                        
                                    
                                        
                                    
                            
                            
                                
                                    Can't find your health trust?
                                    Browse the full list
                                
                                
                                    Browse the full list
                                    
                                        Go
                                    
                                    
                                        Rather search by typing?
                                        Back to search
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                    
                    
                
            
        
    


If you can't see the NHS Tracker, click or tap here. 
    
        

                
                
                
                
                
            
            
        Dame Donna Kinnair, of the Royal College of Nursing, said the NHS was going into the winter  "on the back foot".She said research by the RCN showed hospitals were facing a shortage of both beds and staff - with images of "patients waiting on trolleys in corridors" becoming all too common.  The health departments in each nation have said they are committed to improving waiting times. In Scotland and Wales, specific programmes have been launched to speed up progress.Northern Ireland's Health and Social Care Board conceded "the waiting times experienced by many patients continue to be unacceptable".The Department of Health and Social Care in England praised "hard-working staff" and said the extra money being provided to the health service in the coming years would put it on a "sustainable footing".'My mum is suffering'
                
                
                
                
                
                 Image copyright
                 Other
                
            
            
        Carol Johns has been battling to get her mother, Maria King, treatment since the spring.Ms King, 84, has been experiencing painful and swollen feet, which has left her struggling to walk and has disturbed her sleep.Her daughter said she had experienced delay after delay in trying to get scans and appointments with doctors.One appointment had to be cancelled because the hospital said it did not have enough doctors.She has even tried to get treatment at other hospitals further away from her home in the Midlands and paid for a scan to be done privately.But her mother is still waiting."I am very frustrated. My mother has not got the quality of life she did. She is suffering."How quickly are patients meant to be seen?
                
                
                
                
                
                 Image copyright
                 stockvisual
                
            
            
        It depends on where you live in the UK. In each UK nation, patients are meant to be seen within four hours of arrival at A&E - and by seen, the NHS means either admitted into hospital for further treatment or treated and discharged.For cancer, each nation expects patients to start their treatment within 62 days of an urgent referral, although there are differences in the way each nation measures that.The biggest variation in the way performance is judged is seen in the waiting times for non-emergency treatments, such as knee and hip replacements.In England and Scotland, patients are meant to be seen within 18 weeks, while in Wales it is 26 weeks. Northern Ireland has a different system in that it only measures part of the patient's wait - once they are under the care of a hospital doctor rather than when they are referred by a GP. The expectation is that patients will have their treatment within 13 weeks once they have had all their tests and scans and doctors decide they do need treatment.Is this as bad as it has ever been?
                
                
                
                
                
            
            
        If you look at the picture on a national level - adding together all the individual hospital services - performance has sunk to its worst level in recent times.Each part of the UK has missed all its three key NHS targets every month or quarter for more than a year - the first time this has happened.The last time a target was met was in August 2017 in Scotland.In Wales, none of its three key targets has been hit for at least five years.It marks the worst sustained period of performance since targets started being introduced shortly after the turn of the century.Chris Hopson, chief executive of NHS Providers, which represents managers, said the system was facing "significant strain".Which hospitals are struggling the most?In England, 16 hospital trusts out of 131 missed all their monthly targets. They were: Bradford Teaching Hospitals
Taunton and Somerset
Guy's and St Thomas'
Northern Lincolnshire & Goole
Plymouth Hospitals
The Royal Wolverhampton
Mid Essex Hospital Services
Leeds Teaching Hospitals
University College London Hospitals
East Kent Hospitals
Hull and East Yorkshire Hospitals
United Lincolnshire Hospitals
Maidstone and Tunbridge Wells
East and North Hertfordshire
Worcestershire Acute Hospitals
Brighton and Sussex University Hospitals
In Northern Ireland, all five trusts have failed to hit a single target in the past 12 months. They were:Belfast
South Eastern
Northern 
Southern 
Western 
In Scotland, three out of 14 health boards missed all their targets. They were:Forth Valley
Greater Glasgow and Clyde
Lothian
In Wales, five out of seven health boards missed all their targets. They were:Cardiff and Vale 
Cwm Taf 
Aneurin Bevan 
Abertawe Bro Morgannwg 
Betsi Cadwaladr
Additional data journalism by Will Dahlgreen
            

