
    Blac Chyna called out for skin-lightening cream

        

    
        
                
                Image copyright
                 Getty Images
                
            
            
        Blac Chyna is being criticised for selling a skin-lightening cream in Nigeria.The model's new product, in partnership with a brand called Whitenicious, was announced on Instagram.The Whitenicious x Blac Chyna Collection is described as an "illuminating and brightening cream" that "lightens without bleaching skin out".Some skin lightening products are banned in the UK.
    
        
            Skip Instagram post  by blacchyna
                    View this post on Instagram           Lagos Nigeria, join me at the first official launch of  my face cream this Sunday November 25th at  the Whitenicious store from 1-5PM. Everyone is invited.  @whitenicious A post shared by  Blac Chyna (@blacchyna) on Nov 19, 2018 at 5:47pm PST
            Report
            End of Instagram post  by blacchyna
        
    
    
        
            
                
                         Image Copyright blacchyna
                        blacchyna
                    
                    Report
                
        
    


                
                
                
                
                
            
            
        The founder of Whitenicious is Cameroonian pop star Denecia.
    
        
There has been controversy around her brand since it launched in 2014. In an interview with Ebony at the time, she was quoted as saying: "Will Whitenicious bleach your skin if you use it on all your skin? Yes, it will. Are we selling Whitenicous for that purpose? No, we're not."The company says its cream is meant to be used for conditions like hyperpigmentation, when people have dark spots on their skin. But that hasn't stopped a backlash against Blac Chyna, who rose to fame stripping and modelling, before launching a make-up brand and having a child with Rob Kardashian.
    
        
            Skip Instagram post  by whitenicious
                    View this post on Instagram           Looking At The Bright Side Of Our Faces.  #blacchyna #skincare #facecare A post shared by  Whitenicious By Dencia (@whitenicious) on Nov 19, 2018 at 11:20am PST
            Report
            End of Instagram post  by whitenicious
        
    
    
        
            
                
                         Image Copyright whitenicious
                        whitenicious
                    
                    Report
                
        
    


                
                
                
                
                
            
            
        Despite some people using skin-lightening products as a cosmetic procedure to change the appearance of blemishes like birth marks, they have a bad reputation the world over due to the harmful ingredients that some can contain. The NHS says that "powerful skin-lightening creams" can be prescribed by a doctor, usually containing hydroquinone and/or corticosteroids, a steroid medication.But products containing those ingredients which haven't been prescribed by a medical professional are banned in the UK. A UK man was jailed for selling toxic skin-lightening products earlier this year, the first time that's happened. 
            Media playback is unsupported on your device
      
        
          
      
        Media caption'I almost died from using skin-whitening cream'Blac Chyna's product doesn't contain any of those ingredients, but she's been accused of "exploiting" Nigeria's colourism problem. Colourism is prejudice against people who have a darker skin tone, and/or the preferential treatment of those who are of the same race but lighter-skinned.Many skin-lightening products are not banned in Nigeria, where 77% of women are reported to use some form of them on a regular basis according to the World Health Organisation. Dr Harvey Olufunmilayo is a Nigerian doctor training in Britain as an NHS GP, who says he's seen first-hand how skin-bleaching products "can be harmful to the kidneys, how they can be harmful to the liver... how they can make it difficult for wounds to heal because the skin is too thin, too fragile". "If their kidneys get ruined, they don't get free healthcare like we do in the UK."The UN has declared Nigeria to be the poverty capital of the world, with the highest number of poor people in the world. We shouldn't really be encouraging that kind of thing." 
    
        
            Skip Twitter post  by @SincerelyTops
            
                Blac Chyna partnering up with Africa's bleaching king and queen to create a new face bleaching cream is beyond problematic.It's really rubbing me the wrong way, ain't no way in hell she would do that in LA. Exploiting Nigeria's colourism problem is disgusting— Tops (@SincerelyTops) November 20, 2018

            Report
            
            End of Twitter post  by @SincerelyTops
        
    


                
                
                
                
                
            
            
        Stephanie is 21 and lives in Lagos, the most populated city in Nigeria. She says that there was pressure on her friends to bleach their skin during secondary school. "People were always like 'Oh, if you are dark-skinned then you are Coke, if you are light skin then you are Fanta', and a lot of people wanted to become Fanta - so they bleached their skin."
                
                
                
                
                
                 Image copyright
                 Courtesy of Stephanie
                
            
            
            Image caption
                
                    Stephanie thinks Blac Chyna should stay away
                
            But she says that Nigerians are trying to "push towards self-love" and "embrace the melanin and blackness that comes with being African"."So I don't think Blac Chyna should come to Africa to launch her product."Blac Chyna disabled comments on her Instagram post but that hasn't stopped people writing on her other pictures. "Bye White Chyna," one person wrote. People have been critical of the model's latest business venture elsewhere as well. 
    
        
            Skip Twitter post  by @Wavylazy_
            
                “Why is Blac Chyna trending” *See’s why* pic.twitter.com/TQUHaFceNP— Chandler. (@Wavylazy_) November 20, 2018

            Report
            
            End of Twitter post  by @Wavylazy_
        
    


    
        
            Skip Twitter post  by @tha_outsideR
            
                How is your name “blac” chyna , but you’re promoting a bleaching cream called whitenicious pic.twitter.com/rtZWVo0MZK— The OutsideR (@tha_outsideR) November 20, 2018

            Report
            
            End of Twitter post  by @tha_outsideR
        
    


                
                
                
                
                
            
            
        Newsbeat has contacted representatives of Blac Chyna but hasn't yet received a response. Follow Newsbeat on Instagram, Facebook and Twitter.Listen to Newsbeat live at 12:45 and 17:45 every weekday on BBC Radio 1 and 1Xtra - if you miss us you can listen back here.
            

