
    Netflix and Satanic Temple settle £38m lawsuit over Sabrina remake

        

    
        
                
                Image copyright
                 Netflix
                
            
            
            Image caption
                
                    Sabrina Spellman is played by Kiernan Shipka in the Netflix reboot
                
            A Satanic group which sued Netflix and Warner Bros for $50m (£38m) over the new Sabrina series says it has "amicably" settled the lawsuit.The Satanic Temple claimed the series copied the group's statue of the goat deity Baphomet.It alleged the icon - similar to their own - appears in four episodes of the series.The group said it's settled the lawsuit but details will remain confidential.
    
        
            Skip Twitter post  by @LucienGreaves
            
                For purposes of comparison... pic.twitter.com/AZJvmq1Cks— Lucien Greaves (@LucienGreaves) October 30, 2018

            Report
            
            End of Twitter post  by @LucienGreaves
        
    


                
                
                
                
                
            
            
        The temple's founder Lucien Greaves responded to the news on social media saying the case had been "over publicised".
    
        

    
        
            Skip Twitter post 2 by @LucienGreaves
            
                So ends one of the most overpublicized of copyright claims. Press can now stop pretending this was unique & momentous, or even interesting. So, too, hopefully ends the parade of stupidity from online amateur legal experts.https://t.co/eSg1fl3sdv— Lucien Greaves (@LucienGreaves) November 21, 2018

            Report
            
            End of Twitter post 2 by @LucienGreaves
        
    

In a blog post, he said he had received hate mail over the lawsuit with some people suggesting that a large powerful Satanic organisation was "using its might to bully an uncertain and innocent teenage witch who has just been newly exposed to the wide, cruel world".He went on: "I particularly loved the confused claim from the people who said we were 'playing victim', with the alternative being that we simply stand silent when we feel our work may have been exploited."Does the Sabrina reboot live up to the hype?
Netflix soars on record subscriber total
In a statement, the Satanic Temple said: "The unique elements of the Satanic Temple's Baphomet statue have been acknowledged in the credits of episodes which have already been filmed."The remaining terms of the settlement are subject to a confidentiality agreement." It said it does not worship Satan but instead works to "encourage benevolence and empathy among all people". Netflix and Warner Bros have not made any public statement about the settlement.
                
                
                
                
                
                 Image copyright
                 Netflix
                
            
            
            Image caption
                
                    Sabrina and her boyfriend Harvey in the Chilling Adventures of Sabrina reboot on Netflix
                
            What is the Satanic Temple?Founded in 2012, the group works to ensure the separation of church and state and holds Satan as a symbol of "opposition to arbitrary authority".With 15 official chapterhouses in the US, the group's membership soared off the back of the election of Donald Trump in 2016.In a speech Mr Greaves said that the pre-election global following of around 100,000 had "thousands" of applications for new members overnight after the election.Follow Newsbeat on Instagram, Facebook and Twitter.Listen to Newsbeat live at 12:45 and 17:45 every weekday on BBC Radio 1 and 1Xtra - if you miss us you can listen back here.
            

