
    Little Mix strip naked and are scrawled with insults

        

    
        
                
                Image copyright
                 Rankin
                
            
            
        Little Mix have posed naked with offensive words written all over their bodies to promote their new single Strip.Words likes "slutty", "ugly" and "talentless" are scrawled across their strategically covered bodies. In a post on Instagram, the band said Strip was "all about standing proud".They said it was written to "encourage and empower people to be who they are". And their fans seem to love it.The lyrics include: "Jiggle all this weight, yeah you know I love all of this// Finally love me naked// Sexiest when I'm confident."
    
        
"We're talking about stuff we've wanted to speak about for ages," Jesy says. "We've all suffered from body confidence and negative comments, and up until now we didn't really have a song we felt addressed everything we needed to."
    
        
            Skip Instagram post  by littlemix
                    View this post on Instagram           We have loved sharing all these incredible, inspirational women and their stories with you. And we have a little surprise 👀  A few months ago, we invited all the women to be a part of our brand new music video for #Strip.  Strip is a really special song from LM5, it’s all about standing proud and we wrote it to encourage and empower people to be who they are.  We were lucky enough to have the amazing @rankinarchive bring our vision to life in partnership with @youtubemusic!  We co-directed this video and are so incredibly proud of it, Strip will be all yours on Friday. 16.11.18. #LM5. The girls x A post shared by  Little Mix (@littlemix) on Nov 14, 2018 at 11:02am PST
            Report
            End of Instagram post  by littlemix
        
    
    
        
            
                
                         Image Copyright littlemix
                        littlemix
                    
                    Report
                
        
    


                
                
                
                
                
            
            
        "We just want women to feel equal and incredible," Perrie says.  The music video for Strip was co-directed by world famous photographer Rankin and features "real women" they describe as "incredible" and "inspirational".The women who star in the video include influencers, activists, friends and family. Muslim author and blogger Dina Tokio, appears in the video, and the band describe her as "a super woman".
    
        
            Skip Twitter post  by @LittleMix
            
                .@dinatokio is a superwoman! She's a fashion blogger, mum and an amazing author ♥️ In this clip, she talks about her book, breaking down uneducated stereotypes of Muslim women ♀️ and frustrations that led to her setting up her successful blog! pic.twitter.com/kXtgiUPWNq— Little Mix (@LittleMix) November 8, 2018

            Report
            
            End of Twitter post  by @LittleMix
        
    


                
                
                
                
                
            
            
        Sex and relationships YouTuber, Hannah Witton, is another of the women chosen to appear in the video.She said: "I'm so so so excited to be part of this". 
    
        
            Skip Twitter post  by @hannahwitton
            
                I am so so so excited about this! I'm in @LittleMix's music video for #Strip along with so many other incredible women! Thanks for inviting us to be a part of this! It's out on FRIDAY! ✨💕 https://t.co/Rg3kRARhwk— Hannah Witton (@hannahwitton) November 14, 2018

            Report
            
            End of Twitter post  by @hannahwitton
        
    


                
                
                
                
                
            
            
        Female Genital Multilation (FGM) campaigner Nimco Ali appears in the Strip video and described what Little Mix were doing as "game changing".
    
        
            Skip Twitter post  by @NimkoAli
            
                I am in a music video with other incredible women. Yes me. Love @LittleMix and the game changing stuff they are doing. https://t.co/n1ehYcYQnC— Nimco Ali 🔻 (@NimkoAli) November 14, 2018

            Report
            
            End of Twitter post  by @NimkoAli
        
    

Journalist and author Bryony Gordon, who stripped down to her underwear to run the London Marathon, also makes an appearance in the video.
    
        
            Skip Twitter post  by @bryony_gordon
            
                I am in a Little Mix video (is something I never thought I would tweet) Me! Hurtling towards 40! A recovering alcoholic with OCD! A size 18! WHAT A TIME TO BE ALIVE! https://t.co/1jBt2P6BpJ— Bryony Gordon (@bryony_gordon) November 14, 2018

            Report
            
            End of Twitter post  by @bryony_gordon
        
    

Little Mix say the idea behind the video is to "show the beautiful features that they once saw as flaws" and to invite "real women to do the same and celebrate alongside them".  Fans have been using the hashtag #StripForLittleMix to share their stories of empowerment.
    
        
            Skip Twitter post  by @kyperrett
            
                I used to cry every day because I wasn’t who I wanted to be and wasn’t liked by nasty people who used to treat me like rubbish but consequently don’t even matter to me anymore. Now I’m happy and thriving in positive energy. Thank you LM❤️❤️❤️❤️ #StripForLittleMix pic.twitter.com/xaXY5GTELC— Kii (@kyperrett) November 14, 2018

            Report
            
            End of Twitter post  by @kyperrett
        
    


                
                
                
                
                
            
            
        
    
        
            Skip Twitter post  by @breakfreeleigh
            
                as a kid i used to hate my curls with passion, got bullied for it a lot, got called awful names etc. but the older i got the less i cared. Leigh was & still is a big part of my journey, she helps me embrace my curls & showed me that they’re beautiful #StripForLittleMix pic.twitter.com/flFsvmeDZh— cherise ¹²⁷ (@breakfreeleigh) November 14, 2018

            Report
            
            End of Twitter post  by @breakfreeleigh
        
    


                
                
                
                
                
            
            
        
    
        
            Skip Twitter post  by @heavcnperrie
            
                I always thought that my body wasn’t beautiful.that stretch marks aren’t beautiful.that, having big breasts isnt normal. I thought that my body wasn’t good, and that’s how society made me feel about it. #StripForLittleMix You girls made me feel so empowered, you don’t know how.⭐️ pic.twitter.com/W6fZ2osoUP— i stan queens (@heavcnperrie) November 14, 2018

            Report
            
            End of Twitter post  by @heavcnperrie
        
    


                
                
                
                
                
            
            
        
    
        
            Skip Twitter post  by @justaboymixer
            
                I never upload photos of myself on Twitter because I just didn't feel comfortable with it, but seeing what @LittleMix have done today has made me be proud of who I am. #StripForLittleMix💜💚💙❤💛 pic.twitter.com/lniSceurp7— Jack (@justaboymixer) November 14, 2018

            Report
            
            End of Twitter post  by @justaboymixer
        
    


                
                
                
                
                
            
            
        Earlier this week, Little Mix announced they split from Simon Cowell's record label days before the release of their new album, LM5.Jade Thirlwall, Perrie Edwards, Jesy Nelson and Leigh-Anne Pinnock, are moving to the label RCA, which is part of the larger Sony Group, which also includes Syco.Simon Cowell told The Sun newspaper that it happened because he fell out with their management company Modest Management.Follow Newsbeat on Instagram, Facebook and Twitter. Listen to Newsbeat live at 12:45 and 17:45 every weekday on BBC Radio 1 and 1Xtra - if you miss us you can listen back here. 
            

