
    NYPD find UK couple who lost ring during romantic proposal

        

    
        
                
                Image copyright
                  NYPD
                
            
            
        Police in New York have found the couple who got engaged in Times Square on Friday but lost the ring down a grate.The NYPD tweeted on Sunday that arrangements were being made to return the ring to the pair, who are from the UK. CCTV images showed the couple unsuccessfully trying to retrieve the piece of jewellery.But police officers later managed to rescue and clean it.The BBC understands the couple are from the UK. Police said they had now returned home.
    
        

    
        
            Skip Twitter post  by @NYPDnews
            
                We would like to thank everyone who shared this story! The (now) happy couple is back in their home country, but thanks to your retweets they heard we were looking for them! We’re making arrangements to get them their ring back. Congratulations! https://t.co/rXHxxkwClm— NYPD NEWS (@NYPDnews) December 2, 2018

            Report
            
            End of Twitter post  by @NYPDnews
        
    


                
                
                
                
                
            
            
        The footage was taken just before midnight on Friday and was released by police shortly after. It doesn't show the moment the man pops the question but we do see him getting down on one knee in an attempt to find the ring.His fiancée, who police confirmed said "Yes", puts her hands to her face when she realises what has happened. She crouches down next to him, trying to help but they are unsuccessful.The man then lies down on the floor by the grate, trying to reach the piece of jewellery but again they are unable to retrieve it.Officers from the New York Police Department clearly have a romantic side and, more importantly, access to the grate, so could get it out quite easily.Earlier, they had put out a plea for the man and woman to come forward. 
    
        
            Skip Twitter post 2 by @NYPDnews
            
                WANTED for dropping his fiancée’s ring in @TimesSquareNYC! She said Yes - but he was so excited that he dropped the ring in a grate. Our @NYPDSpecialops officers rescued it & would like to return it to the happy couple. Help us find them? 💍 call 800-577-TIPS @NYPDTIPS @NYPDMTN pic.twitter.com/tPWg8OE0MQ— NYPD NEWS (@NYPDnews) December 1, 2018

            Report
            
            End of Twitter post 2 by @NYPDnews
        
    


                
                
                
                
                
            
            
        Later on Sunday they released an image of the cleaned-up ring on their Twitter account with the caption: "Here's a photo of the ring our officers recovered (and cleaned!) Call 1-800-577-TIPS or DM @NYPDTips if you know the happy couple so we can return it to them!"
    
        
            Skip Twitter post 3 by @NYPDnews
            
                Here’s a photo of the ring our officers recovered (and cleaned!) Call 1-800-577-TIPS or DM @NYPDTips if you know the happy couple so we can return it to them! pic.twitter.com/hzFXxuMVJW— NYPD NEWS (@NYPDnews) December 1, 2018

            Report
            
            End of Twitter post 3 by @NYPDnews
        
    


                
                
                
                
                
            
            
        Well-wishers were quick respond on social media. One wrote: "I hope the couple is grate-ful."Follow Newsbeat on Instagram, Facebook and Twitter.Listen to Newsbeat live at 12:45 and 17:45 every weekday on BBC Radio 1 and 1Xtra - if you miss us you can listen back here.
            

