
    Twenty-eight injured in Lisbon tram crash

        

    
        
                
                Image copyright
                 Sebastiao Almeida/Publico
                
            
            
        Twenty-eight people were injured when a tram derailed and overturned in Lisbon.Most of the casualties were taken to hospital after the incident on Friday, but none were in a serious condition. It was initially thought that two British children were injured, but the Foreign Office believes no one from the UK was involved. It's understood the children may be American.Reports said the tram came off the rails on a bend at the bottom of a steep hill, before hitting a building.A six-month-old and a seven-year-old were rescued by passers-by, according to local media.
    
        
The accident, which happened at around 18:00 GMT in the Lapa area of the Portuguese capital, left 26 people needing hospital treatment, while two were treated at the scene.
    
        
            Skip Twitter post  by @mariebigorie
            
                O elétrico descarrilhou e capotou pertinho de casa. Estão tirando as pessoas ainda. 10 feridos até agora pic.twitter.com/8wkG1RGrpb— Marie Bigorie (@mariebigorie) December 14, 2018

            Report
            
            End of Twitter post  by @mariebigorie
        
    


                
                
                
                
                
            
            
        A witness told Portuguese newspaper Publico that he heard "a bang" and "people screaming" when the tram derailed on a corner after failing to stop.  Portuguese news channel TVI 24 reported that some of the victims had suffered chest, face and eye injuries.
                
                
                
                
                
                 Image copyright
                 Getty Images
                
            
            
            Image caption
                
                    Lisbon's historic electric trams are popular with tourists.
                
            There was a large response by the emergency services, with around 30 emergency vehicles on the scene, according to newspaper Jornal de Noticias. The tram operator, Carris, confirmed the derailment but said there were only "slight" injuries to 28 people.The company also said it would carry out a "thorough investigation" to determine the causes of the accident.
            

