
    Royal Family: Christmas card images by Harry, Meghan, William and Kate

        

    
        
                
                Image copyright
                 Matt Porteous
                
            
            
        Members of the Royal Family have revealed their Christmas cards - including a new wedding photo of the Duke and Duchess of Sussex. Harry and Meghan are seen watching fireworks at their evening wedding reception in the black and white image. They are shown with their arms wrapped around each other at Frogmore House, with their backs to the camera. Meanwhile, the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge and their three children are pictured at their Norfolk home. In the card's autumnal image, Kate is holding Prince Louis - now nearly eight months old - as the family sits on a tree trunk in the grounds of Anmer Hall.
    
        
Princess Charlotte stands between her parents, while a playful Prince George - in a pair of wellies - grins as he lifts a leg in the air, his hands on his father's shoulders. 
                
                
                
                
                
                 Image copyright
                 Chris Allerton
                
            
            
            Image caption
                
                    The Duke and Duchess of Sussex
                
            For their card, the Duke and Duchess of Cornwall gaze at each other as they sit on a bench in the grounds of Clarence House. It's become an annual tradition for the royals to reveal which of their favourite photographs they've chosen for the cards they send out each Christmas.  
                
                
                
                
                
                 Image copyright
                 Hugo Burnand/PA wire
                
            
            
            Image caption
                
                    The Prince of Wales and Duchess of Cornwall
                
            
                
                
                
                
                
                 Image copyright
                 Hugo Burnand/PA 
                
            
            
        Have you made a family Christmas card too? Send a picture to haveyoursay@bbc.co.ukor WhatsApp:+44 7555 173285Please include a contact number if you are willing to speak to a BBC journalist. You can also contact us in the following ways:Tweet: @BBC_HaveYourSay

Send pictures/video to yourpics@bbc.co.uk

Upload your pictures / video here
Please read our terms & conditions and privacy policy



