
    Saddam Hussein memorial plaque appears on London bench

        

    
        
                
                Image copyright
                 Victoria Richards
                
            
            
            Image caption
                
                    The plaque has been removed but Wanstead locals wonder who put it up in the first place
                
            A Saddam Hussein memorial plaque that appeared on an east London bench has been removed.It read: "In Loving Memory of Saddam Hussein" and it is not clear who left it there or what their intention was.Wanstead resident Victoria Richards told the BBC it appeared on the bench on Sunday. Local residents saw it and "expressed their outrage" on a community Facebook page, she said. Former Iraqi president Saddam Hussein, born in April 1937, was hanged in 2006 for crimes against humanity. His rule was characterised by a mixture of brutality, megalomania and paranoia. 
    
        
'Frivolous, dark thing to do?'Victoria posted a picture of the plaque online. Thousands of people have retweeted it and hundreds of people have commented on it. "People have been very angry and upset, especially the Iraqi community. People have been saying it's a sick joke."What was there before? Was it someone's family plaque?" she said. Victoria questioned the motive of whoever fixed the plaque on the bench: "Was it a prankster? What's the message? Was it a frivolous, dark thing to do?"Reaction on social media has been mixed. Some thought it was funny while others were shocked.
    
        
            Skip Twitter post  by @GrungeNorris
            
                I personally think this is #hilarious 👏🏻😂 Real #gallowshumor if you’ll excuse the pun 🤣🤣🤣https://t.co/1WZaUj9LJQ— Grunge Norris (@GrungeNorris) November 19, 2018

            Report
            
            End of Twitter post  by @GrungeNorris
        
    


                
                
                
                
                
            
            
        
    
        
            Skip Twitter post  by @katyjohnson30
            
                Two things I never thought would be seen together - "loving memory" & Saddam Hussein— Katy Johnson (@katyjohnson30) November 19, 2018

            Report
            
            End of Twitter post  by @katyjohnson30
        
    


                
                
                
                
                
            
            
        Some came to the conclusion there must have been another person called Saddam Hussein who was born and died on the same dates as the dictator, and lived locally in Wanstead.
    
        
            Skip Twitter post  by @Kris_Sangani
            
                I’m surprised by the sheer stupidity of some people on the hub who think there is a chance that there is another Saddam Hussein born and died on the same day who lived locally.— Kris Sangani (@Kris_Sangani) November 19, 2018

            Report
            
            End of Twitter post  by @Kris_Sangani
        
    


                
                
                
                
                
            
            
        Normality restored to WansteadThe plaque appears to have now been removed, with local resident Ann Holmes tweeting that "normality has been restored to Wanstead."
    
        
            Skip Twitter post  by @annholmes3
            
                Normality has been restored to #Wanstead now that  the offending Sadam Hussein plaque has been removed #benchgate pic.twitter.com/Bqt1g6RW3O— ann holmes (@annholmes3) November 19, 2018

            Report
            
            End of Twitter post  by @annholmes3
        
    


                
                
                
                
                
            
            
        She told the BBC: "I live in Wanstead and it had caused a lot of controversy. I had actually thought of trying to remove it myself but thankfully the council got there first!"The BBC has contacted Redbridge Council for comment.By Victoria Park, UGC & Social news
            

