
    Mother and daughter, 8, die in Nottinghamshire fire

        

    
        
                
                
            
            Image caption
                
                    A section of the road has been blocked off while an investigation takes place
                
            A mother aged 33 and her eight-year-old daughter have died in a house fire in Nottinghamshire. A 34-year-old man and a young boy were taken to hospital with serious injuries and a woman aged 53 escaped unhurt. Police believe they were members of the same family.Police and fire crews were called to the fire in Woodhill Road, Collingham, near Newark, shortly after 07:00 GMT. A section of the road has been blocked off while an investigation takes place.
                
                
                
                
                
            
            
            Image caption
                
                    A five-year-old boy and a 34-year-old man remain in hospital with serious injuries following the fire
                
            Four crews tackled the blaze, which has now been extinguished.
    
        
Paul Norton, who lives nearby, said he was getting ready to go for a run about 07:00 GMT when he saw a "great big glow" out of his landing window. He said: "It was clear that the conservatory was on fire, so I called the fire brigade."Me, another guy and my son tried to break into the door to get the key to open it. By that time the first fire engine came."His son, Elliot, said: "The front door was quite strong so we went round the back and tried to break through the back door. "We were banging so hard, it was a single pane, I accidentally put my hand through and cut my finger."You could feel the heat inside the house."'Hit village hard'Ch Insp Rich Stapleford said firefighters removed the five family members from the property and ambulance crews were on scene to provide treatment there and en route to hospital.He said: "Despite their best efforts it is with sadness that I confirm a girl aged eight and a woman aged 33 have died following the incident."A five-year-old boy and a 34-year-old man remain in hospital with serious injuries."A 53-year-old woman was lead to safety and looked after at the scene."
                
                
                
                
                
            
            
            Image caption
                
                    Ch Insp Stapleford said Collingham was a "very close-knit community and this includes some of the fire crews who responded"
                
            Ch Insp Stapleford said Collingham, which is a village close to the River Trent, was a "very close-knit community and this includes some of the fire crews who responded".He said: "I know this news will hit the village very hard indeed. "I speak on behalf of all the emergency services who were in attendance when I say our thoughts are with the victims, their families, friends and the community of Collingham at this difficult time." 
                
                
                
                
                
            
            
        Follow BBC East Midlands on Facebook, on Twitter, or on Instagram. Send your story ideas to eastmidsnews@bbc.co.uk.
            

