
    David McGreavy: Triple child killer cleared for release

        

    
        
                
                Image copyright
                 Mercury Press 
                
            
            
            Image caption
                
                    David McGreavy was "compliant and co-operative with authority", a Parole Board report said
                
            A babysitter who killed three children and impaled their bodies on garden railings has been cleared for release.  David McGreavy was sentenced to life in 1973 for killing Paul Ralph, four, and his sisters Dawn, two, and nine-month-old Samantha in their Worcester home.Their mother Elsie Urry told The Sun she had "begged" that McGreavy, who is now in his late 60s, stay locked up.A Parole Board report said he "changed considerably" over 45 years in jail. The board confirmed a panel had directed his release following an oral hearing. 
    
        
McGreavy, who was dubbed the "Monster of Worcester", was the family's lodger and claimed he killed the children because one of them would not stop crying. He strangled Paul at the home in Gillam Street, Rainbow Hill, while Dawn was found with her throat cut. Samantha died from a compound fracture to the skull.
                
                
                
                
                
            
            
            Image caption
                
                    The children's mother, now called Elsie Urry, said McGreavy babysat for only about an hour
                
            Ms Urry, who has also been known as Dorothy, previously said he should never be released. She told the BBC two years ago she regularly visited her children's graves in Worcester from her Hampshire home. Ms Urry said McGreavy, who was 21 when he was jailed, had been her husband's friend and stayed with them because he had fallen out with his parents. On the night of the killings he had babysat the children for up to an hour so she could work in a pub.Ms Urry said she needed to earn money as they were trying to buy a home. "I just feel that people blame me for what happened because I was working that evening," she said.
                
                
                
                
                
            
            
            Image caption
                
                    McGreavy was jailed at Worcester Crown Court
                
            Ms Urry told The Sun after news he had been cleared for release: "What this animal did to my children was every bit as bad as what the Moors Murderers did."He put my babies on spikes for God's sake - he mutilated them and they died in agony."She was reassured after his trial "his crime was so terrible he would never walk free again" and now felt "betrayed". 
                
                
                
                
                
            
            
        You may also be interested in:'Zombie warzone' at troubled jail
Midwife murderer jailed for 17 years
News and updates from the West Midlands

                
                
                
                
                
            
            
        A board document referred to a victim personal statement from Ms Urry "setting out the devastating effect that these deaths had on her and still do have".But it said McGreavy now had "a considerable understanding of the problems that he has had and what caused them".It added: "The psychologist identified a number of factors which make it less likely that Mr McGreavy will reoffend in future."These included his improved self-control and the fact that Mr McGreavy has learnt to remain calm in stressful situations."A network of supportive friends in the community was also identified as a protective factor."The possible release of McGreavy has been discussed by authorities for at least 10 years. 
            

