
    Ilford Station stabbing: Police officer attacked

        

    
        
                
                Image copyright
                 Thinkstock
                
            
            
            Image caption
                
                    The officer's injuries are not thought to be life threatening
                
            A police officer has been stabbed outside a train station in East London.The male officer was "attacked with a knife" after being approached outside Ilford Station, British Transport Police said.A man has been arrested in connection with the attack, which happened at around 21:45 GMT on Friday.The officer was taken to hospital but his injuries are not thought to be life-threatening, police said.  Counter-terrorism police are not involved at this stage, it is understood.
    
        
Witnesses described seeing the bloodied officer outside the station which was put on "complete lockdown".
    
        
            Skip Twitter post  by @stanikzai_19
            
                The @BTP doing great job! Saw a police officer in front of the station in blood!! Hope he is ok! Ilford is getting worse day by day :(— ضمېر الله ستانکزې (@stanikzai_19) November 23, 2018

            Report
            
            End of Twitter post  by @stanikzai_19
        
    


                
                
                
                
                
                 Image copyright
                 Google
                
            
            
            Image caption
                
                    The officer was approached outside the station and attacked with a knife, police said
                
            The stabbing comes amid an increase in attacks on police officers and a rise in violent crime in London, particularly knife crime.Only help officers 'if safe to do so'Officers 'could let suspects go'Metropolitan Police Federation Ken Marsh recently called for officers to be given greater support after an incident where an officer was kicked into a road, close to the path of a bus.
    
        
            Skip Twitter post  by @BTP
            
                Police officer stabbed outside Ilford Railway Station, around 9.45pm last night (Friday). We're you there? Did you witness the attack? Man has been arrested. Text BTP on 61016 or call 0800 40 50 40 - quote 659 of 23/11/2018— British Transport Police (@BTP) November 24, 2018

            Report
            
            End of Twitter post  by @BTP
        
    

He had previously warned of a "breakdown in society" after two officers were attacked as they tried to apprehend a suspect in Hackney.
            

