
    Ireland greats delight in victory over New Zealand

        

    
        
                
                Image copyright
                 Inpho
                
            
            
            Image caption
                
                    Jacob Stockdale's try was the only try of the game
                
            Ireland's historic win over New Zealand on Saturday in an electric Aviva Stadium had many pundits talking up the men in green as the team to beat at next year's World Cup.Ireland coach Joe Schmidt was keen to play down the favourites tag.But former Ulster and Ireland international Andrew Trimble was among those clearly excited by the prospect."Ten months out from the World Cup, what does this mean? Book your flights lads," he told the BBC."It was incredible, an absolute pleasure to witness, a pleasure to be here," said Trimble, who played for Ireland in their first ever win against the All Blacks in Chicago in 2016.
    
        
"That test match had everything. It was absolutely incredible.
                
                
                
                
                
                 Image copyright
                 Press Eye
                
            
            
            Image caption
                
                    Andrew Trimble played 223 times for Ulster and 70 times for Ireland
                
            "I thought that Irish performance had everything. In the first half, possession wise, we were all over them."The 16-9 victory in Dublin was Ireland's first ever win over reigning world champions New Zealand, with the only try of the game scored by Ulster's Jacob Stockdale.Former Ireland and Lions captain Willie John McBride was delighted by Stockdale's performance."In attack he is tremendous and he is always improving," McBride told BBC News NI.
                
                
                
                
                
                 Image copyright
                 Ciaran McCauley
                
            
            
            Image caption
                
                    Former Irish international Willie John McBride in the original Ulster Rugby video
                
            "It was a tremendous win, it is always nice to beat the best, especially on home soil."I believe we have the best coach in the world, he has developed and has great depth."I think we are in a healthy position to win the World Cup. Let's just hope we do not get any injuries."A host of other current and former Ireland internationals praised the performance.
    
        
            Skip Twitter post  by @BrianODriscoll
            
                What a team effort yesterday was. Defensively immense. Tactically brilliant - but what we’ve now come to expect from Joe & co. Class leadership from @RoryBest2. A proud day in @IrishRugby history.— Brian O'Driscoll (@BrianODriscoll) November 18, 2018

            Report
            
            End of Twitter post  by @BrianODriscoll
        
    

Among them was Johnny Sexton, who Willie John McBride believes is the best player in the world.
    
        
            Skip Twitter post  by @JohnnySexton
            
                ☘️Unreal support. Best atmosphere ever!! Quiet night ahead 🤥 @ Aviva Stadium https://t.co/8NjXAZB425— Johnny Sexton (@JohnnySexton) November 17, 2018

            Report
            
            End of Twitter post  by @JohnnySexton
        
    

And both Northern Ireland Secretary Karen Bradley and Irish Foreign Minister Simon Coveney sent their congratulations to the team.
    
        
            Skip Twitter post  by @NIOgov
            
                Secretary of State: Congratulations to @IrishRugby for the amazing achievement of beating the world champions. What a game! #IREvNZL— Northern Ireland Office (@NIOgov) November 17, 2018

            Report
            
            End of Twitter post  by @NIOgov
        
    


                
                
                
                
                
            
            
        
    
        
            Skip Twitter post  by @simoncoveney
            
                What an unbelievable game of rugby, v proud of @IrishRugby - so many leaders. pic.twitter.com/SmkU4EojBJ— Simon Coveney (@simoncoveney) November 17, 2018

            Report
            
            End of Twitter post  by @simoncoveney
        
    


            

