
    Brexit: May not ruling out second MPs' vote on deal

        

    
        
            Media playback is unsupported on your device
      
        
          
      
        Media captionTheresa May: I'm focused on the Commons vote Theresa May has refused to rule out another Commons vote on her Brexit deal if MPs reject it the first time.The PM said she thought she could win the vote on 11 December despite dozens of Tory MPs being against the deal.In an interview with the BBC's Laura Kuenssberg, she urged MPs to "deliver on the vote of the referendum".EU Council President Donald Tusk warned if MPs rejected the deal, the UK would face a choice between leaving without a deal or not leaving at all. Under Commons rules, the prime minister is not meant to ask MPs the same question twice - she would have to change the contents of her deal.
    
        
Alternatively, if enough MPs indicate they have changed their minds after voting the deal down, it could be held again, but it would be up to the Speaker to decide whether to allow that.Brexit: A really simple guide
Labour gets behind bid to stop 'no-deal'
What happens if MPs reject Brexit deal?
Nine Tory tribes May needs to convince
Pressed by Laura Kuenssberg on whether she would attempt to hold another vote, she said: "I'm focused on the vote that is taking place on 11 December and I want everybody who's going to participate, all members of Parliament, to focus on what this vote does."Mrs May, who is in Buenos Aires, Argentina, for a G20 summit of world leaders, accused Labour of having no alternative plan.And by threatening to oppose her deal in the Commons vote, she claims, Jeremy Corbyn's party was, in effect, advocating leaving without a deal. But the Labour leadership has said it is ready to support a cross-party amendment to the vote that would explicitly rule out a no-deal. The amendment would not be binding but it would be hard for the PM to ignore it, if it is passed by Parliament.European Council President Donald Tusk, meanwhile, has stressed that the deal the EU struck with Theresa May was the "only possible one".He said: "If this deal is rejected in the Commons, we are left with, as was stressed a few weeks ago from Prime Minister May, an alternative - no deal or no Brexit at all."His point was echoed by Irish foreign minister Simon Coveney.
    
        
            Skip Twitter post  by @simoncoveney
            
                The EU are not bluffing on this, there is no other deal on offer apart from the deal agreed by all 28 EU leaders including UK -     'No deal or no Brexit' if London rejects text - Tusk via @RTENewsNow https://t.co/5TW27f76el— Simon Coveney (@simoncoveney) November 30, 2018

            Report
            
            End of Twitter post  by @simoncoveney
        
    

Earlier, Mrs May ruled out moving to a Norway-style deal with the EU, an idea being promoted by some Tory MPs. She said this was unacceptable as it would see freedom of movement continue.Russia-Ukraine crisis clouds G20 summitMay's deal v the alternatives?
                
                
                
                
                
                 Image copyright
                 Getty Images
                
            
            
            Image caption
                
                    Margaret Beckett is one of three former foreign secretaries urging another referendum
                
            It is widely expected that MPs will reject the EU withdrawal agreement and blueprint for a future trade deal agreed with the EU.In anticipation of this happening, some MPs are trying to mobilise support for the so-called "Norway Plus" option, which they claim could win support across the House of Commons. Under their plan, the current withdrawal agreement would be honoured but the UK would seek to rejoin the European Free Trade Association (Efta), which it belonged to before entering the European Economic Community in 1973 - on an indefinite basis. If Efta's existing members - Switzerland, Norway, Liechtenstein and Iceland - agreed, it would allow the UK to retain membership of the customs union and full access to the single market.Advocates of the plan say the UK would still be outside the Common Agricultural Policy and the Common Fisheries Policy - but it would also mean continued free movement of people.Mrs May said this kind of deal would not fulfil the referendum pledge to take back control of the UK's borders, laws and money. But three former Labour foreign secretaries have warned of the damage to British influence around the world if the UK leaves the EU.David Miliband, Jack Straw and Margaret Beckett told the Financial Times they all backed the People's Vote campaign for another referendum. Mr Straw told the BBC he believed there was a "huge appetite" among the public to have their say again."At the moment, people are having to go sullenly to accept the situation is as it is - not remotely anticipated by the Brexiteers nor anything like that which was promised," he told BBC Radio 4's Today programme. Ministers step up efforts to sell deal
                
                
                
                
                
            
            
        In a speech in Bristol, International Trade Secretary Liam Fox argued that while the deal will not please everyone, critics "are yet to face up to" the "tough choices" she had to make.Mr Fox told the BBC that the PM was "changing the public mood" and while there were alternatives to her deal which would give the UK a freer hand to strike other trade deals, that could come with a "price" in terms of reduced access to EU markets.The Financial Times says Mrs May is enlisting the support of senior Brexiteers such as Michael Gove and Geoffrey Cox to try to sell her controversial Irish "backstop" plan to sceptical Tory MPs.Mr Fox said he was not "enthusiastic" about the backstop, which could see the UK enter a customs partnership with the EU until its future relationship is sorted out and without the unilateral right to pull out. But he insisted the chance of the backstop, described as an "insurance policy" by Mrs May, actually coming into force was slight as it was just as "unpalatable" to other EU members, including the Republic of Ireland. And Treasury Minister Liz Truss, who is backing Mrs May to get the agreement through Parliament, suggested parts of it could be renegotiated after the UK left the EU."We can do what we want,"  she told the Daily Mail. "Some things are set in treaties but no parliament can bind its successor."Meanwhile, several Tory opponents of Mrs May's deal have said they will not back down in the face of reports that Parliament could be forced to sit over the Christmas period if MPs reject the agreement.
    
        
            Skip Twitter post  by @stevedouble
            
                This is getting desperate. But you know what. This is likely to be the most important decision any of us in Parliament vote on. Plenty of other public servants such as doctors/police work over Christmas. If this is the price of doing what is right for our country bring it on. https://t.co/QhHoEDNrBm— Steve Double MP (@stevedouble) November 30, 2018

            Report
            
            End of Twitter post  by @stevedouble
        
    


    
        
            Skip Twitter post  by @MarcusFysh
            
                Absolutely right. This is our democracy at stake. If I have to be in Parliament to preserve it on Christmas morning I will be there with bells on. https://t.co/mqxTZKdZ1Q— Marcus Fysh MP (@MarcusFysh) November 30, 2018

            Report
            
            End of Twitter post  by @MarcusFysh
        
    


            

