
    Brexit: Theresa May telling MPs why Brexit is being delayed

        

    
        
                
                Image copyright
                 Getty Images
                
            
            
        Theresa May has called off Tuesday's crucial vote on her Brexit deal in the face of what was expected to be a significant defeat by Tory rebels.The prime minister is setting out her reasons for the delay in a statement to MPs. Downing Street had been insisting the vote would go ahead.The pound fell sharply in response, shedding 0.5% versus the US dollar to stand at $1.26, an 18-month low. The pound was 0.8% down against the euro.Mrs May's Commons statement will be followed by a statement from Commons leader Andrea Leadsom - and then a statement from the Brexit secretary Stephen Barclay on Article 50 - the legal mechanism taking the UK out of the EU on 29 March.
    
        
Parliament live: Rolling updates on Brexit developments 
Brexit anxiety sends pound to 18-month low
UK can cancel Brexit, says EU court
Backstop changes 'not possible' - Irish PM
However, amid uncertainty about the official procedure for calling off the vote, the BBC's Laura Kuenssberg said it was not impossible Labour could join forces with Tory Brexiteers to try and make it go ahead. 
    
        
            Skip Twitter post  by @bbclaurak
            
                PM to say govt looking closely at new ways of 'empowering' the Commons to ensure that backstop has 'democratic legitimacy'— Laura Kuenssberg (@bbclaurak) December 10, 2018

            Report
            
            End of Twitter post  by @bbclaurak
        
    


                
                
                
                
                
            
            
        DUP deputy leader Nigel Dodds said the situation was "quite frankly a bit of a shambles" and the PM was paying the price for crossing her "red lines" when it came to Northern Ireland. Theresa May's deal has been agreed with the EU - but it needs to be backed by the UK Parliament if it is to become law ahead of the UK's departure.Mrs May is thought to be trying to convince MPs to back her deal by suggesting the Northern Ireland backstop - the main item they object to - could be modified.DUP leader Arlene Foster said she had told the prime minister in a phone call that the "backstop must go".
    
        
            Skip Twitter post  by @DUPleader
            
                Just finished a call with the Prime Minister. My message was clear. The backstop must go. Too much time has been wasted. Need a better deal. Disappointed it has taken so long for Prime Minister to listen.— Arlene Foster (@DUPleader) December 10, 2018

            Report
            
            End of Twitter post  by @DUPleader
        
    


                
                
                
                
                
            
            
        Mrs May has also been speaking to EU leaders about re-opening the withdrawal agreement, something both sides have previously ruled out.It comes as the European Court of Justice ruled the UK could cancel Brexit without the permission of the other 27 EU members.But European Commission spokeswoman Mina Andreeva said the EU would not renegotiate the Withdrawal Agreement.Reality Check: Does Brussels blink?
Six post-Brexit vote scenarios
"As President Juncker said, this deal is the best and only deal possible," she said. "We will not renegotiate - our position has therefore not changed and as far as we are concerned the United Kingdom is leaving the European Union on 29 March, 2019."The BBC's Brussels reporter Adam Fleming said Mrs May was "trying get more legal oomph behind the language" in the withdrawal agreement about the EU using "best endeavours" to get a trade deal which would remove the need for the backstop to be used.
    
        
            Skip Twitter post  by @adamfleming
            
                I’ve heard the PM is trying to get more legal oomph behind the language in the Withdrawal Agreement of using “best endeavours” to reach a trade deal which removes the need for the backstop ie solve the problem in this para of last week’s legal advice. (As usual, let’s see) pic.twitter.com/6FzH849yXl— Adam Fleming (@adamfleming) December 10, 2018

            Report
            
            End of Twitter post  by @adamfleming
        
    


                
                
                
                
                
            
            
        Dozens of Conservative MPs had been planning to join forces with Labour, the SNP, the Lib Dems, Plaid Cymru and the DUP to vote down Mrs May's deal.The Tory rebels and the DUP do not like the Northern Ireland "backstop", a legally-binding proposal for a customs arrangement with the EU, which would come into force if the two sides' cannot agree a future relationship which avoids the return of a visible Northern Ireland border. Tory MPs say it is unacceptable because it would result in new regulatory barriers between Northern Ireland and the rest of the UK and could continue indefinitely, because the UK would not be able to leave without the EU's approval. Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn, who was hoping to use a defeat for Mrs May on Tuesday to force a general election, said: "The government has decided Theresa May's Brexit deal is so disastrous that it has taken the desperate step of delaying its own vote at the eleventh hour."He said the prime minister should have "have gone back to Brussels to renegotiate or called an election" when it became clear she would not get her deal through Parliament."We don't have a functioning government," he added. 
    
        
            Skip Twitter post  by @BBCVickiYoung
            
                Reaction from most #Conservative MPs on hearing vote has been pulled is that it’s delaying inevitable (defeat) #Brexit— Vicki Young (@BBCVickiYoung) December 10, 2018

            Report
            
            End of Twitter post  by @BBCVickiYoung
        
    


                
                
                
                
                
            
            
        Labour MP Chris Leslie suggested his party could table a no-confidence motion in the prime minister on Tuesday. SNP leader and Scotland's First Minister Nicola Sturgeon tweeted to Jeremy Corbyn: "If Labour, as official opposition, lodges motion of no confidence in this incompetent government tomorrow, @theSNP will support & we can then work together to give people the chance to stop Brexit in another vote. This shambles can't go on - so how about it?"But Tory MP Nigel Evans said the prime minister had taken a "wise decision" as the outcome of the vote would have been a "humiliation" for her. He said she still had the necessary authority to re-negotiate the deal.Conservative Brexiteer Peter Bone said Tory MPs would back Mrs May in a confidence vote - as would the Democratic Unionist Party, which is against her deal but is committed to keeping her in power.Mr Bone said "every day that goes by" takes the UK closer to leaving the EU on World Trade Organization terms, without a deal - something he backs.But he added: "Maybe there is a chance to renegotiate and I hope she will."But Irish Prime Minister Leo Varadkar said it was not possible to renegotiate the Irish border backstop proposal without "opening up all aspects" of the Brexit withdrawal agreement. Conservative Remainer Anna Soubry said on Twitter: "PM said there'd be no General Election and there was. PM said there'd definitely be a vote tomorrow and there won't be."PM said there definitely won't be a People's Vote. Get ready People's Vote, taking this matter back to the people is the only way out of this Brexit chaos." 
    
        
            
                
                    
                        Please upgrade your browser
                    
                
            
        
            
                
                    
                        Your guide to Brexit jargon
                        
                                
                            
                                
                                    Enter the word or phrase you are looking for
                                
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            Search
                                            
                                        
                                    
                                    
                                
                            
                                
                                
                            
                            
                        
                        
                        
                    
                
            
        
    



