
    Bodies found in search for missing couple

        

    
        
                
                
            
            Image caption
                
                    Susan and James Kenneavy have not been seen at home or been in contact with family
                
            Police searching for a couple missing after their car was found washed up on a beach have found two bodies. James and Susan Kenneavy's empty vehicle was found by workmen clearing debris on Drummore beach, near Stranraer, on Thursday morning.  Police said they were called after a woman's body was found at the edge of the water in Port William, near Newton Stewart, at 08:15 on Saturday. The body of a man was discovered nearby at 08:45. Search on hold after car washes up on beachA spokeswoman for Police Scotland said: "Although formal identification has still to take place, it is believed to be the missing couple and their next of kin has been informed.  
    
        
"A full report will be sent to the procurator fiscal. Our thoughts are with their family at this time."Port William is on the opposite side of Luce Bay to Drummore, where the Kenneavy's car was found. 
                
                
                
                
                
            
            
        
                
                
                
                
                
            
            
        The discovery of the couple's empty Ford Kuga followed heavy rain and flooding on Drummore coastal road on Wednesday.The couple, thought to be in their 70s, had not been seen at home in Drummore and had not been in contact with family.Search teams worked into the night on Thursday looking for the couple - and air, sea and land searches took place on Friday.The efforts had involved local lifeboats, Galloway Mountain Rescue Team and the Coastguard and Rescue 936 search helicopter.
                
                
                
                
                
                 Image copyright
                 Google
                
            
            
            Image caption
                
                    Drummore coastal road was closed on Wednesday due to heavy rain and flooding
                
            Local people said conditions on the coastal route could be extremely treacherous, and large storm waves could affect the main road into the village. On Friday villager Edward Beck told BBC Radio Scotland's Good Morning Scotland programme that local people were aware of weather and flood warnings. He added: "You can be driving through three, four feet of water and a lot of cars can suck water into the engine and you can get stranded. "That part [of the road] actually looks like it's in the sea if you hit it at the right time."'Local character'Speaking to the BBC Scotland website, he paid tribute to Mr Kenneavy, who moved to Drummore from East Kilbride. "He was always smartly dressed whenever he went out, in collar and tie," he said."He was very humorous, smart, clever - a witty man. No matter what he was going through he always brought cheer to people's faces. He would make people smile."He was loads of fun."
                
                
                
                
                
                 Image copyright
                 Police Scotland
                
            
            
            Image caption
                
                    A search into the night on Thursday failed to find any trace of Mr and Mrs Kenneavy
                
            The missing couple's neighbours, George Gregory and Lynne Copland, said they were well known in the small village. Mr Gregory said: "I have been here more than 20 years now and Jim lived here when I first came here and he was just one of the local characters, I guess. A nice friendly fellow. A very nice couple."Ms Copland said the incident had been a "shock to the system". She added: "They were a lovely couple. If you met either of them outside in the street, they would stand and talk to you for as long as you wanted. They were a really, really nice couple."
            

