
    Storm Deirdre: Treacherous conditions 'could worsen' overnight

        

    
        
                
                Image copyright
                 Met Office
                
            
            
            Image caption
                
                    Amber warnings for snow and ice are in place across much of the country
                
            Transport bosses are warning drivers that treacherous conditions could worsen through the night as weather warnings remain in place.Storm Deirdre has brought wintry conditions to Scotland, with 1,200 homes losing power in the Moray area due to high winds.Temperatures are set to drop overnight with snow and freezing rain expected to create dangerous travelling conditions.Met Office warnings remain in place until Sunday morning.SSE Networks said electricity should be restored to all affected households on Saturday evening.
    
        

                
                
                
                
                
            
            
        SP Energy Networks also reported power cuts in postcodes in Haddington, Dunbar, Kelso and Jedburgh.Stein Connolly from Transport Scotland told the BBC: "This weather warning is going to take us all the way through the night and into the morning. We are starting to see drops in temperature and some snow."Plan your journey. Look at the Traffic Scotland website. Make sure the route that you are planning is available to you. "Make sure your car is ready for the journey. We don't want anything to happen to anybody out there particularly at this time of year. A small bump could spoil your Christmas."So please, leave plenty of room, drive to the conditions and make sure you get to your destination safely."
                
                
                
                
                
            
            
        A new amber alert issued on Saturday warned of freezing rain and a "prolonged" period of heavy snow in the Scottish Borders in the afternoon.Another amber warning predicted potential blizzard conditions in central and Northern Scotland.A third Met Office amber alert anticipated widespread freezing rain hitting the country from the southern Pennines up to central Scotland.Amber warnings for snow and ice covered the central belt, Tayside, Strathclyde and Fife.'Highly unusual'Warnings were also in place for south west Scotland, Lothian, the Borders, Highland and Grampian.The band of freezing rain was forecast to hit on one of the busiest festive shopping days of the year.Forecasters said 5-10cm (2-4in) of snow was likely to fall widely in the warning zone, with some areas seeing 20cm (8in), and perhaps as much as 40cm (16in) over higher ground. 
                
                
                
                
                
            
            
        What is freezing rain and should we be worried?
            Media playback is unsupported on your device
      
        
          
      
        Media captionFreezing rain is treacherous but how is it formed and what are the risks?
                
                
                
                
                
            
            
        Following a meeting of the Scottish government's Resilience Room on Friday, Transport Minister Michael Matheson said delays and cancellations on public transport were possible, while there could be interruptions to power supplies and telephone networks, and some rural communities may find themselves cut off.Mr Matheson said: "I would encourage people in the affected areas to consider whether they need to make their journey."If they do, they should expect disruption. Drivers should plan their routes, leave plenty of time, follow Police Scotland travel advice and drive to the conditions."
    
        
            Skip Twitter post  by @metoffice
            
                Last minute Christmas shoppers are being warned to take care this #Saturday We are expecting some #FreezingRain. Stay #weatheraware & keep an eye on https://t.co/QwDLMfRBfs  for the latest info❄️ pic.twitter.com/giIxg5MRtY— Met Office (@metoffice) December 14, 2018

            Report
            
            End of Twitter post  by @metoffice
        
    


                
                
                
                
                
            
            
        Supt Louise Blakelock, deputy head of road policing for Police Scotland, said: "Freezing rain is highly unusual and is expected to result in the rapid development of widespread ice, which will lead to dangerous travelling conditions."I appreciate that many people will be planning Christmas shopping trips this weekend and have festive social events planned with family and friends, however, if you do travel, you are likely to experience significant delays."Congestion caused by all vehicles may restrict the emergency services, recovery vehicles, gritters and snowploughs from providing essential assistance or from clearing roads."Weather warnings explained
How to drive in snow and icy weather
Health bosses in Glasgow have urged people to wear warm clothing and appropriate footwear if they are venturing out.Hospitals experienced a surge of patients requiring X-rays and treatment after slips and falls following an overnight freeze on 4 December.'Warning zone'NHS Greater Glasgow and Clyde director of public health Dr Linda de Caestecker said: "Fashion footwear such as high heels isn't appropriate when pavements and roads are icy - so be smart and wear shoes or boots with good grip ... and if going to a stylish party or event take a pair of fashion shoes with you to wear when you arrive."
                
                
                
                
                
                 Image copyright
                 Weatherwatcher Lisa Lethen
                
            
            
        She added: "Anyone going out to celebrate this weekend should also make sure they dress warmly and think about how much alcohol they are drinking."Even if you're not venturing far, please be careful as you step out the front door as black ice can take us by surprise."The snow is expected to clear from the west by Sunday morning. A Met Office yellow warning for wind is also in place for the Northern Isles and Caithness between 12:00 on Saturday and 06:00 on Sunday. Winds are likely to gust up to 60-65mph.
                
                
                
                
                
            
            
        Travel linksTraffic Scotland
Transport Scotland
Ready Scotland
National Rail Enquiries
Traveline Scotland
ScotRail
Network Rail


