
    'Phallic' owl statue mocked in Serbian town of Kikinda

        

    
        
                
                Image copyright
                 Reuters
                
            
            
            Image caption
                
                    The owl statue has raised eyebrows in the northern Serbian town of Kikinda
                
            A recently erected owl statue in northern Serbian has drawn mockery for its allegedly phallic shape. The 2.4 metre (8ft) terracotta sculpture was created to celebrate the town of Kikinda's status as a bird-watching hub for the world's largest roosting population of long-eared owls. But shortly after it was raised, critics decried it as obscene.The original Facebook post on the town's page to celebrate the statue received dozens of mocking comments."This is great," wrote one. "I just can't figure out what it reminds me of". 
    
        

    
        
            Skip Facebook post  by Град Кикинда
            Да ли сте приметили да полако стижу наше драге гошће, сове? 
Није ни чудо, јер стигао је и Совембар! 😊🦉🍂

Аутор статуе:...Posted by Град Кикинда on Thursday, 1 November 2018
            Report
            End of Facebook post  by Град Кикинда
        
    


                
                
                
                
                
            
            
        "I love owls and I love the city but this sculpture is pure failure," another said. There was also anger, with some speaking of the "shame" it has brought to Kikinda."Now everyone will make fun of us," one Facebook user commented.
                
                
                
                
                
            
            
        You may also like:Hotel's huge gorilla roof statue stolen
Mo Salah statue draws mockery online
Giant squirrel upsets Kazakh community

                
                
                
                
                
            
            
        The statue's creator, Jovan Blat, told Serbian newspaper Vecernje Novosti that he was prepared to make a new sculpture in light of the criticism. The statue was not intended to be "a copy" of an owl, but rather a "stylised sculpture" with "an elongated, tubular body", he said. "It is clear... that everyone does not understand contemporary art," he said, while admitting he may have "some technical limitations".
                
                
                
                
                
                 Image copyright
                 Reuters
                
            
            
            Image caption
                
                    Thousands of bird watchers in Serbia and from abroad regularly travel to Kikinda to see the long-eared owls in the town's parks
                
            

