
    Strasbourg shooting: Gunman at large after two killed and 12 injured

        

    
        
            Media playback is unsupported on your device
      
        
          
      
        Media captionPater Fritz describes hearing gunshots and helping a victim of the Strasbourg shootingAt least two people have been killed and 12 others wounded in a shooting in the eastern French city of Strasbourg.The gunman, known to security services, is on the run and is being hunted by police. He had been injured in an exchange of gunfire with a soldier, police said.The shooting happened close to a Christmas market near one of the central squares, Place Kléber.France's counter terrorism prosecutor has opened an investigation. Confirming the death toll had risen to two, French Interior Minister Christophe Castaner, who is on his way to the city, called it a "serious public security incident". 
    
        
Six of the injured are said to be in a serious condition, while six others suffered light injuries, police said.
                
                
                
                
                
                 Image copyright
                 Getty Images
                
            
            
            Image caption
                
                    Armed police secured an area near the Christmas market where the shooting occurred
                
            Police said the 29-year-old suspect was born in Strasbourg and was already known to the security services as a possible terrorist threat. According to France's BFM TV the man had fled his flat in the Neudorf district of the city on Tuesday morning as it was being searched by police in connection with a robbery.Grenades were found during the search.Residents in Neudorf have been urged to stay indoors amid unconfirmed reports he has been tracked down and cornered by police in the area.The European Parliament, which is nearby, is currently under lockdown. The parliament's president, Antonio Tajani, tweeted to say it would "not be intimidated by terrorist or criminal attacks".
    
        
            Skip Twitter post  by @EP_President
            
                I express all my sorrow for the victims of the Strasbourg attacks. This Parliament will not be intimidated by terrorist or criminal attacks. Let us move on. We will continue to work and react strengthened by freedom and democracy against terrorist violence.— Antonio Tajani (@EP_President) December 11, 2018

            Report
            
            End of Twitter post  by @EP_President
        
    


                
                
                
                
                
            
            
        Panic in the cityThe attack unfolded at around 20:00 local time (19:00 GMT) close to Strasbourg's famed Christmas market, which attracts thousands of visitors at this time of year.Eyewitness Pater Fritz told the BBC he heard gunfire and found a person who had been shot, lying on a bridge. He said he tried to resuscitate him but the man died."There are no ambulance services able to enter the area, apparently," he said, adding: "After 45 minutes we stopped the resuscitation [attempt], because a doctor told us on the phone that it was senseless."
                
                
                
                
                
            
            
        Local journalist Bruno Poussard wrote on Twitter that there had been a dozen shots fired on his street in the city centre - one or two to begin with, then in bursts.Emmanuel Foulon, a press officer for the European Parliament, wrote that there was "panic" in the centre following the sound of gunfire and that police with guns were running through the streets.A shopkeeper told BFM TV: "There were gun shots and people running everywhere. It lasted about 10 minutes."British MEP Richard Corbett tweeted that he was in a restaurant in the city and the doors had been locked.
    
        
            Skip Twitter post  by @RCorbettMEP
            
                Am in restaurant in centre of #strasbourg where shots fired with unconfirmed reports of 3 dead. Restaurant locked and not letting anyone in or out.— Richard Corbett (@RCorbettMEP) December 11, 2018

            Report
            
            End of Twitter post  by @RCorbettMEP
        
    

Are you in the area?  If it's safe to do so, tell us about your experiences by emailing haveyoursay@bbc.co.ukPlease include a contact number if you are willing to speak to a BBC journalist. You can also contact us in the following ways:WhatsApp: +44 7555 173285

Tweet: @BBC_HaveYourSay

Send pictures/video to yourpics@bbc.co.uk

Upload your pictures / video here
Text an SMS or MMS to 61124 or +44 7624 800 100

Please read our terms & conditions and privacy policy



