
    Roger the kangaroo: Enormous roo dies aged 12

        

    
        
                
                Image copyright
                 Kangaroo Sanctuary Alice Springs
                
            
            
        
                
                
            
        Roger, a kangaroo who won global fame for his enormous size and impressive physique, has died at the age of 12. The roo was rescued as a joey after his mother was killed in a car accident, and grew up at the Kangaroo Sanctuary in Alice Springs in Australia.And he grew up a lot - ending up more than 2m (6ft 5) tall and weighing 89kg (196lbs).The sanctuary announced his death from old age at the weekend, saying they had lost their "beautiful boy".
    
        
            Skip Facebook post  by The Kangaroo Sanctuary Alice Springs
            Farewell our darling Roger ❤️

Sadly Roger has passed away of old age. He lived a lovely long life and was loved by millions around the world. We will always love you and miss you Roger ❤️Posted by The Kangaroo Sanctuary Alice Springs on Saturday, 8 December 2018
            Report
            End of Facebook post  by The Kangaroo Sanctuary Alice Springs
        
    


                
                
                
                
                
            
            
        Chris "Brolga" Barns, who said he had set up the sanctuary to house Roger and "a couple of his wives", said the marsupial had been their alpha for many years. 
    
        
"He grew up to be a kangaroo that people from all over the world have grown to love as much as we love him", he said.
    
        
            Skip Instagram post  by thekangaroosanctuary
                    View this post on Instagram           Roger ❤️ 💪🏽 When Roger was alpha boss male his height when standing was about 2 metres (6ft 7) - same height as me. The clucking noise he is making is telling me to get away from his lady kangaroos. And the red on his neck is a scent that males rub onto trees etc to mark their territory. A post shared by  The Kangaroo Sanctuary (@thekangaroosanctuary) on Nov 16, 2018 at 1:39pm PST
            Report
            End of Instagram post  by thekangaroosanctuary
        
    
    
        
            
                
                         Image Copyright thekangaroosanctuary
                        thekangaroosanctuary
                    
                    Report
                
        
    


                
                
                
                
                
            
            
        Mr Barns said Roger had been buried in the park so "he will always be here".Roger first came to the world's attention in 2015 when images of him crushing a metal bucket in his hands using his huge muscles went viral. In his later years he had struggled with arthritis and fading vision, but was "loving his retirement", Mr Barns said in 2016.In the wild, kangaroos live for about 10 years but can live longer in captivity. 
            

