
    George HW Bush's service dog Sully pays touching last tribute

        

    
        
                
                Image copyright
                 Office of George HW Bush
                
            
            
            Image caption
                
                    Sully the dog sleeps next to the casket of the late US President George HW Bush
                
            The golden labrador who worked as a service dog for President George HW Bush has been pictured resting beside his coffin, in a moving tribute.Mr Bush, who served as the 41st US president between 1989 and 1993, died late on Friday at the age of 94. Sully the dog will be travelling with the casket on the flight from Texas to Washington DC on Monday.Mr Bush's body is due to lie in state this week ahead of a day of national mourning.The coffin will be flown from Texas to DC on board Air Force One - temporarily renamed Special Air Mission 41, in homage to the late president - and then back on Wednesday, with Sully accompanying the body throughout. 
    
        
The picture was tweeted by Mr Bush's spokesman, Jim McGrath, showing Sully next to Mr Bush's casket on Sunday along with the caption: "Mission complete."Biden's new dog and other political pets
What makes a one-term president?
Social media users thanked Sully for his services and commented on his and dogs' loyalty generally towards their owners.
    
        
            Skip Twitter post  by @SamSofiMama
            
                Loyal until the end.  Why we love dogs so much.  R.I.P. #Remembering41— Mayra SGdT (@SamSofiMama) December 3, 2018

            Report
            
            End of Twitter post  by @SamSofiMama
        
    


    
        
            Skip Twitter post  by @Fairwinds10
            
                OMG 😭 - we don't deserve dogs, they are just the best, what a tremendously loyal and loving pooch and glad that he could help make Bush 41's final months a little easier - Well done, Sully. 🐶#Remembering41— Phillydude 41-33 (@Fairwinds10) December 3, 2018

            Report
            
            End of Twitter post  by @Fairwinds10
        
    

Sully is named after the airline pilot Chesley "Sully" Sullenberger, who landed a passenger jet on the Hudson River in 2009, saving all 155 passengers and crew on board.The two-year-old labrador was assigned earlier this year as a service dog to Mr Bush who used a wheelchair in the last years of his life.
    
      
              
              Image Copyright @GeorgeHWBush
              @GeorgeHWBush
          
          Report
      
          
                  Image Copyright @GeorgeHWBush
                  @GeorgeHWBush
              
              Report
          
    

A highly trained dog, Sully can perform a number of commands, including opening doors and fetching items such as the phone when it rings.He will now work as a service dog, assisting with therapy for wounded soldiers.Sully has his own Instagram account; here he is shown "assisting with voting" as Mr Bush cast his ballot in last month's US presidential mid-term election.
    
        
            Skip Instagram post  by sullyhwbush
                    View this post on Instagram           Assisting with voting must be easier with thumbs. It was very nice of Secretary James Baker to help my best friend cast his vote. They didn’t even let me push the button! . . #vote . . . . . . #SullyHWBush #SullyBush #bush41 #instagood #goodboy #DogOfInstagram #TalesOfALab #InstaDog #InstaDogs #Dogs #AmericasVetDogs #GuidedogFoundation #labrador A post shared by  Sully H.W. Bush (@sullyhwbush) on Nov 1, 2018 at 1:39pm PDT
            Report
            End of Instagram post  by sullyhwbush
        
    
    
        
            
                
                         Image Copyright sullyhwbush
                        sullyhwbush
                    
                    Report
                
        
    


                
                
                
                
                
            
            
        Not all US presidents have been fond of dogs though: John F Kennedy was allergic to dogs, and Donald Trump does not have one. President Bush had been receiving treatment for a form of Parkinson's disease and had been admitted to hospital with a blood infection in April.He died aged 94 in Houston, Texas.He will be buried at the presidential library in Texas, alongside his wife, Barbara Bush, who died seven months ago.The making of a president
A life in pictures

            Media playback is unsupported on your device
      
        
          
      
        Media captionA look back at the life of George Bush Senior

