
    Child's note tells driver bus hit his parked car

        

    
        
                
                Image copyright
                 @Andrew_Sipowicz
                
            
            
            Image caption
                
                    Andrew Sipowicz pointed out the child's drawing of the bus was not to scale
                
            A college student's "shout-out" to a child who left a note on his damaged car, telling him a school bus driver was to blame, has been widely shared on Twitter.Andrew Sipowicz, from Buffalo, New York, found the handwritten note on his vehicle, which read "Bus 449 hit your car", alongside a drawing.After he shared the note on social media, its author's sixth grade teacher recognised the handwriting and got in touch with Mr Sipowicz."Me and my family are so grateful and we want to reward the girl somehow," the 21-year-old told the BBC, adding that the note probably saved him thousands in repair bills.His tweet has been liked more than 500,000 times.
    
        

    
        
            Skip Twitter post  by @Andrew_Sipowicz
            
                Shoutout to the anonymous 6th grader for saving me a couple thousand (Bus not drawn to scale) pic.twitter.com/7aNK10xSwX— Andrew Sipowicz (@Andrew_Sipowicz) November 20, 2018

            Report
            
            End of Twitter post  by @Andrew_Sipowicz
        
    


                
                
                
                
                
            
            
        The accident happened on Monday when the bus collided with Mr Sipowicz's vehicle: "She [the bus driver] was trying to pull off and hit the car. She hit-and-run," the child wrote in her note."She tried to squeeze through but couldn't. She made a dent and I saw what happened. Sorry," she wrote next to her drawing of the bus with smiley faces peeking through its windows.Mr Sipowicz speculates that the student probably got off the bus at the stop where the accident happened, and later went back to leave the detailed note.
                
                
                
                
                
                 Image copyright
                 Andrew Sipowicz 
                
            
            
            Image caption
                
                    Andrew Sipowicz studies Health and Wellness at Canisius College
                
            After contacting the bus company, Mr Sipowicz received an apology and assurances that they would cover the cost of the damage.He plans to visit the school student to thank her next week when Thanksgiving holidays are over."I just want to thank her so much for being so courageous and doing the right thing when it would have been easier to go home and forget the whole thing," he explains.
                
                
                
                
                
                 Image copyright
                 Ashley Sipowicz
                
            
            
            Image caption
                
                    Mr Sipowicz's car was damaged in Buffalo, New York
                
            Children in sixth grade in the States are usually aged between 11 and 12 and many people picked up on the high standard of handwriting used in the letter.
    
        
            Skip Twitter post  by @NekaSaphire
            
                Kudos to the 6th grader! He's snitching for a good reason so thats just fine. Beautiful handwriting for a 6th grader by the way— Neka Bari (@NekaSaphire) November 21, 2018

            Report
            
            End of Twitter post  by @NekaSaphire
        
    


                
                
                
                
                
            
            
        One Twitter user joked that the girl could have a future in the insurance business, while others praised the detail of the child's drawing of the bus, which included passengers staring out of the windows in shock.
    
        
            Skip Twitter post  by @political_rn
            
                The level of detail is incredible pic.twitter.com/11DzQtFCHj— political_RN (@political_rn) November 21, 2018

            Report
            
            End of Twitter post  by @political_rn
        
    


                
                
                
                
                
            
            
        And an art teacher claimed that the drawing showed that art is important.
    
        
            Skip Twitter post  by @acraftyarab
            
                As an art teacher, can I just have a moment or two to enjoy that bus?This.This is why art is important people!— A Crafty Arab (@acraftyarab) November 21, 2018

            Report
            
            End of Twitter post  by @acraftyarab
        
    


                
                
                
                
                
            
            
        Mr Sipowicz's tweet even encouraged people to share their stories of similar things happening to them. One woman tweeted a similar note she had received from a neighbour which revealed a colleague had hit her car.
    
        
            Skip Twitter post  by @dimaismadduh
            
                Shout out to all the people that see other people do hit and runs and leave detailed notes. This was left on my car last week. The person that hit my car was a coworker. That was a fun conversation the next day 😐 pic.twitter.com/MEUd7h87bS— Dima (@dimaismadduh) November 21, 2018

            Report
            
            End of Twitter post  by @dimaismadduh
        
    


                
                
                
                
                
            
            
        By Sarah Jenkins and Georgina Rannard, UGC and Social News Team
            

