
    Brexit: EU determined to keep calm and carry on with deal

        
        
            

                    
                Katya Adler
                Europe editor

                                    @BBCkatyaadler on Twitter
                            
            

        

    
        
                
                Image copyright
                 EPA/Reuters
                
            
            
            Image caption
                
                    Germany's Angela Merkel and Irish leader Leo Varadkar have both stressed they have no appetite to amend the Brexit deal
                
            Again and again throughout this Brexit process I've been struck by the chasm in thinking between leading UK politicians and the viewpoint of EU leaders.But the current state of affairs is particularly surreal.As the UK's political class twists and turns itself into a spitting Brexit frenzy and the pound fluctuates hysterically on the currency markets, the EU has popped on its blinkers, clapped its hands firmly over its metaphorical ears and is resolutely continuing preparations for a special summit of EU leaders to sign a Brexit deal that many in the UK believe/hope could yet end up in the bin. So far, nothing - none of the screaming headlines back in the UK - is managing to distract the EU from its focus.    
            Media playback is unsupported on your device
      
        
          
      
        Media captionMay responds to call to stand asideThis, first and foremost, is because Theresa May stands firmly behind the Brexit deal. And Europeans view her as the UK's chief Brexit negotiator. 
    
        
UK cabinet ministers - even Brexit secretaries - can come and go, but as long as the prime minister remains on board, EU leaders believe the seal-the-deal Brexit summit will go ahead. There is also zero - really, truly, honestly, not just saying it - zero-intention or appetite in Europe to start renegotiating the withdrawal deal with the UK. 
    Content is not available

                
                
                
                
                
            
            
        For Europe's leaders, the document is the result of 19 months of intense and tense negotiations working towards something (Brexit) that none of them wants and which has already sucked up an enormous amount of time, energy and money across the European capitals in preparation. Of course, the EU would rather the UK changed its mind and stayed in the club. But if it is leaving then this, they say, is the deal on the table.  The EU's chief Brexit negotiator, Michel Barnier, told EU ambassadors on Friday that the European Union should not start a last minute bargaining process. Live: Theresa May vows to sell Brexit deal
No Brexit renegotiation, EU leaders warn
Brexiteers Gove and Fox back PM amid Tory revolt
The EU should protect its principles, he said: meaning standing by the backstop guarantee on the Irish border. Brussels wants to close this chapter and move on. But remember: we're talking about the divorce deal here. Not the future EU-UK trade deal.  Sure, EU and UK negotiators are hammering out a document this weekend to outline the kind of relationship they intend to have with one another after Brexit but - spoiler alert - when it comes to the chapter on future economic relations, expect their text to be suitably vague. 
            Media playback is unsupported on your device
      
        
          
      
        Media captionBrexit: What just happened?And, anyway, this document unlike the Brexit withdrawal agreement is not legally binding. Detailed negotiations on the new EU-UK trade deal will only begin after Brexit day and the UK is legally, if not politically, free to choose - and change - the kind of economic relationship it wants with the bloc: very close à la EEA (European Economic Area),or a more arm's-length deal like Canada has.But, since it takes two to tango in negotiations, each choice has consequences under EU law.  More from Katya:Volatile UK politics could bin Brexit deal, worries EUA Canada-like free-trade agreement can never - whatever David Davis and others promised - offer frictionless trade. And it would lead to a customs border on the island of Ireland unless a separate arrangement is agreed for Northern Ireland.Whereas being a member of the EEA would mean the UK accepting freedom of movement and paying into the EU budget. But the by-now hugely controversial EU-UK customs relationship outlined in the Brexit withdrawal treaty need never come about. It is an on-paper insurance policy to avoid a hard border between Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland since, as already discussed, no-one knows right now what the future economic relationship will look like between the EU and the UK.  Explained: The Irish border Brexit backstop
Your questions answered
Brexit: Where we are in eight charts
How could May turmoil affect Brexit? 
The reason it is a UK-wide customs arrangement is because Theresa May, not the EU, wanted it to be.  And, if a new trade deal is ready between the two sides before the end of the transition period - the end of 2020 - then the "backstop" customs partnership would be superseded.  If it isn't ready, the UK government could ask the EU to extend the transition period instead, though that of course has consequences too: ongoing freedom of movement, payments into the EU budget etc. 
    
        
            
                
                    
                        Please upgrade your browser
                    
                
            
        
            
                
                    
                        Your guide to Brexit jargon
                        
                                
                            
                                
                                    Enter the word or phrase you are looking for
                                
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            Search
                                            
                                        
                                    
                                    
                                
                            
                                
                                
                            
                            
                        
                        
                        
                    
                
            
        
    

Avoiding a no-deal BrexitThe options don't look appetising perhaps but, as I have said, if the UK parliament now rejects the Brexit withdrawal deal, hoping to renegotiate a "better" (i.e more successfully cake-and-eat-it) deal, then the EU doesn't want to know. But they would likely "freeze" the Article 50 process if the UK were to hold a general election or a second referendum. Out of self-interest, of course.  Firstly, because the EU wants to avoid a costly, chaotic no-deal scenario and, secondly, because as France's Emmanuel Macron has said so often, they will keep the door open until the last moment in case the UK should change its mind about leaving. But, deep down, Europeans think a nationwide change of heart is unlikely and that the Brexit deal will in the end be signed.  Which is why, in stark contrast to the UK media obsession with the current political turmoil, Brexit is far, far down the running order of evening news programmes across Europe.   
                
                
                
                
                
            
            
        

