
    Australia dust storm: Health warning as skies change colour

        

    
        
            Media playback is unsupported on your device
      
        
          
      
        Media captionGiant dust storm turns skies orange in south-east AustraliaA giant dust storm has blanketed communities across south-east Australia, turning skies orange and raising concerns about air quality.Authorities issued a public health alert for Sydney on Thursday as the 500km-wide (310 miles) dust band reached the city and caused flight delays.Many regions elsewhere in New South Wales (NSW) have had poor visibility.Authorities said the storm was driven by strong winds picking up dry soil.  The problem has been exacerbated by a drought that has affected the entire state of NSW since August, according to Australia's Bureau of Meteorology.
    
        

                
                
                
                
                
                 Image copyright
                 MATT WHITLUM
                
            
            
            Image caption
                
                    The outback town of Broken Hill was hit by the storm on Wednesday
                
            
                
                
                
                
                
                 Image copyright
                 MATT WHITELUM
                
            
            
            Image caption
                
                    The dust storm has already affected other parts of New South Wales
                
            Paramedics said dozens of people had reported breathing or asthma difficulties on Thursday, but the number affected by dust was not immediately clear.In Sydney, the dust darkened skies and caused "hazardous" air quality readings in some suburbs. Health officials urged locals to stay indoors, particularly children, older people and those with respiratory problems.
                
                
                
                
                
                 Image copyright
                 EPA
                
            
            
            Image caption
                
                    People in Sydney battled strong winds as the dust arrived
                
            One resident in Broken Hill, a town 1,100km west of Sydney, said the dust had lingered for hours on Wednesday."You walked outside and it was in your eyes and it was just a gritty feeling," Matt Whitelum told the BBC.Entire Australian state now in drought
What does it take to break a drought?
Australia's drought seen from the air
"The winds were also so strong that you had to hold the car door open or it would just slam back into your face."
    
        
            Skip Twitter post  by @NSWRFS
            
                The dust storm is moving through #NSW. This photo taken in the Blue Mountains moments ago by @RFSCommissioner. Expected to reach the coast over the coming hours. #dust #drought2018 pic.twitter.com/kzxmQYek3f— NSW RFS (@NSWRFS) November 21, 2018

            Report
            
            End of Twitter post  by @NSWRFS
        
    


                
                
                
                
                
            
            
        The Sydney dust storm has drawn comparisons to a more intense event which shrouded the city in 2009. 
                
                
                
                
                
                 Image copyright
                 Getty Images
                
            
            
            Image caption
                
                    The 2009 dust storm seen above the Sydney Opera House
                
            That dust storm left hundreds of people suffering from breathing difficulties, and forced the grounding of flights.
            

