
    Jackie Chan's daughter confirms marriage to Canadian girlfriend

        

    
        
                
                Image copyright
                 Instagram/UCHUx2
                
            
            
            Image caption
                
                    Andi Autumn (left) and Etta Ng shared the news of their marriage on Instagram on Monday
                
            Etta Ng, the estranged teenage daughter of movie star Jackie Chan, has announced that she has married her 31-year-old Canadian girlfriend.The happy couple shared a picture of Ms Ng, 19, and social media personality Andi Autumn with their apparent marriage certificate, dated 8 November.Media reports said the pair registered their marriage in Canada, and are now in Ms Ng's native Hong Kong.The news was celebrated online, and trended on Chinese platform Weibo.Ms Ng is martial arts star Chan's only child with actor and former beauty queen Elaine Ng Yi Lei following an affair the couple had in 1999.
    
        
She was raised by her mother but local media reports suggest their relationship was fraught with tension in recent years. 
    
        
            Skip Instagram post  by ettazen
                    View this post on Instagram           There is nothing greater than true love found. With love we've returned. My home is Hong Kong, a beautiful city full of life and passion.  Home is where love is. Home is safety and I know too many that do not feel safe within the environment they were given but the new tide is rising. A home is with the family that you can choose and with that we are never alone. Love  is undoutbly stronger than blood.  Everyone deserves love and not until I felt love can  I be sure that understanding, connecting, attention and love in the face of hate can heal the most depraved of hearts  Love always wins. Always.. . . . . . . . . #lovewins #gaymarriage #lgbtq #fightforwhatsright #love #iloveyou #teamlove A post shared by  Etta Zen (@ettazen) on Nov 25, 2018 at 6:52pm PST
            Report
            End of Instagram post  by ettazen
        
    
    
        
            
                
                         Image Copyright ettazen
                        ettazen
                    
                    Report
                
        
    


                
                
                
                
                
            
            
        "We have all been hurt but if you can dream of love, you can find it," the couple wrote in their photo caption. "Love is kind, it does not judge. Love is both strength and weakness. Love can make change. Love wins!"Ms Ng and Ms Autumn are said to have begun dating in late 2017 and Ms Ng moved to Canada shortly thereafter.In April, the couple made a public plea for help on YouTube, claiming they were homeless for a month "due to homophobic parents".This was disputed by Ms Ng's mother, who told the Asian news site Coconuts the couple "should go find work" and not rely on Ms Ng's father's fame to get money.Gay Star news reported that Jackie Chan said he was fine with his daughter's sexuality, but according to media reports he has never had a relationship with her.In 2015 Chan told the BBC of his shame and shock following the news his older son Jaycee Chan had been jailed for six months in China for drug offences.Jackie Chan awarded honorary Oscar

