
    George HW Bush funeral: Four presidents sat (awkwardly) on one pew

        

    
        
                
                Image copyright
                 Reuters
                
            
            
            Image caption
                
                    The Trumps, Obamas, Clintons and Carters
                
            They shared a total of 22 years spent living in the White House - and a wooden pew in the National Cathedral for the memorial service of George HW Bush. It's not often that so many commanders-in-chief, present and past, are gathered in one place. In recent years it has tended to happen at the funerals of presidents or the opening of presidential libraries. At the state funeral of the 41st president of the United States in Washington on Wednesday, there were four together in the front row.When George W Bush arrived and took his place on the other side of the nave, he brought that total to five, and their total years of service running the country to 30.
    
        
The significance of the moment was not lost on some.
    
        
            Skip Twitter post  by @TVTye
            
                SNAPSHOT:  Rare in American history.  Four of five living U.S. Presidents.  Modern medicine and travel make it more regular now than a generation ago.  @wkyc pic.twitter.com/bfZWl8VU90— Chris Tye (@TVTye) December 5, 2018

            Report
            
            End of Twitter post  by @TVTye
        
    


                
                
                
                
                
            
            
        But the exchange between President Donald Trump and the others seemed tense, which is hardly surprising given their history.
    
        
            Skip Twitter post  by @AaronBlake
            
                The Trumps are seated next to:1) The president Trump said was illegitimate (Obama)2) The president he said assaulted women (Clinton)3) The first lady/SoS he said should be in jail (Hillary)4) The president he said was the second-worst, behind Obama (Carter) pic.twitter.com/J63WVhs7HU— Aaron Blake (@AaronBlake) December 5, 2018

            Report
            
            End of Twitter post  by @AaronBlake
        
    


                
                
                
                
                
            
            
        So what exactly happened?
                
                
                
                
                
            
            
        The handshakes and non-handshakesPresident Donald Trump and First Lady Melania were the last to arrive. As they took their places at the front pew, they shook hands with the Obamas next to them.Oh, to know what was going through Michelle Obama's mind as she politely but stiffly greeted Mr Trump.
    
        
            Skip Twitter post  by @YahooNews
            
                WATCH: President Trump and former President Barack Obama share a handshake at George H.W. Bush's funeral pic.twitter.com/nveLphMdiI— Yahoo News (@YahooNews) December 5, 2018

            Report
            
            End of Twitter post  by @YahooNews
        
    


                
                
                
                
                
            
            
        She recently said in an interview that the birther conspiracy theory pushed by him - falsely claiming Barack Obama was not born in the US - was something she would never forgive him for.There was no public handshake between Hillary Clinton, who was sitting on the other side of the Obamas, and Donald Trump. She looked straight ahead and there appeared to be no eye contact between her and her former opponent, in their first meeting since his inauguration.
    
        
            Skip Twitter post  by @BBCJonSopel
            
                That is quite the picture. At one end of the pew ⁦@realDonaldTrump⁩. At the other ⁦@HillaryClinton⁩. Body language looks as chilly as the icy weather outside pic.twitter.com/YFHLXVRXhY— Jon Sopel (@BBCJonSopel) December 5, 2018

            Report
            
            End of Twitter post  by @BBCJonSopel
        
    


                
                
                
                
                
            
            
        The 2016 election campaign was marked by acrimony between the two candidates, with the Republican calling for her imprisonment over her use of a private email server."Lock her up" became a chant at Trump rallies during the campaign and his presidency.Bush legacy repackaged for Trump era
George HW Bush: The making of a president
But First Lady Melania Trump shook Bill Clinton's hand and gave a wave to Mrs Clinton, who nodded her appreciation.
                
                
                
                
                
            
            
        Then along comes another presidentGeorge W Bush arrived and shook hands with each of the occupants in the front row.He seemed to slip something to Michelle Obama - perhaps another sweet, as he did at the memorial service of John McCain.
    
        
            Skip Twitter post  by @CBSNews
            
                Former President George W. Bush shakes hands with four living U.S. presidents and first ladies at #GeorgeHWFuneral. #Remembering41 | #Bush41 | https://t.co/wmwnBcRYye pic.twitter.com/4zwLg14KGa— CBS News (@CBSNews) December 5, 2018

            Report
            
            End of Twitter post  by @CBSNews
        
    

All thought of bad blood between the Trumps and Bushes was forgotten for this occasion, which amounted to a celebration of a president, father and war hero. Donald Trump has in the past mocked "low energy" Jeb Bush and derided the presidency of George W Bush. But this week he has been fulsome in his praise for Bush the elder, and sent one of his iconic presidential jets to deliver the casket from Texas. George HW Bush himself reportedly wanted the the current occupant of the White House - excluded from the memorial service of Senator John McCain - to be present.
                
                
                
                
                
            
            
        Other occasions where presidents gathered
                
                
                
                
                
                 Image copyright
                 Getty Images
                
            
            
            Image caption
                
                    The Clintons, Bushes, Reagans, Carters and Fords at the Nixon funeral in 1994.
                
            The New York Times has looked at other moments in recent times when leaders of the US were together:Dedication of the Ronald Reagan Presidential Library in California in 1991 - President Bush plus Nixon, Ford, Carter and Reagan
Funeral of Richard Nixon, also in California, in 1994 - President Clinton plus Ford, Carter, Reagan and Bush
Ronald Reagan memorial in Washington in 2004 - President W Bush plus Carter, HW Bush and Clinton
Dedication of George W Bush Library in Texas in 2013 - President Obama plus two Bushes, Carter and Clinton
Hurricane recovery efforts in 2017 in Texas - former presidents Obama, W Bush, Clinton, HW Bush and Carter
And some VP historyLet's not forget the vice-presidents who also made the Bush memorial service on Wednesday an occasion of historical note. Former White House Press Secretary Ari Fleischer noted that every living VP since 1977 was present.
    
        
            Skip Twitter post  by @AriFleischer
            
                Every VP since 1977 is at President Bush’s funeral, except one.  Mondale, Quayle, Gore, Cheney, Biden, and Pence are there.  The only one missing is President Reagan’s VP, George HW Bush.— Ari Fleischer (@AriFleischer) December 5, 2018

            Report
            
            End of Twitter post  by @AriFleischer
        
    

More on the HW Bush funeral events
            Media playback is unsupported on your device
      
        
          
      
        Media captionHighlights from an emotional state funeral remembering former President George HW BushFour ways Bush funeral was different
Son's voice cracks with emotion (VIDEO)


