
    Italian Mafia 'godfather' Settimo Mineo held in Sicily raid

        

    
        
                
                Image copyright
                 AFP
                
            
            
            Image caption
                
                    Settimo Mineo has been a senior mafioso for decades, authorities say
                
            Italian police have arrested the man said to be the new head of the Sicilian Mafia, along with 45 associates.The dawn raid in Palermo netted 80-year-old jeweller Settimo Mineo. He was reportedly elected Cosa Nostra godfather at a Mafia meeting in May.Italian media describe him as the successor to Toto Riina, who died in jail a year ago.The Mafia suspects are accused of extortion, firearms offences, arson and other crimes.The Sicilian Mafia - the Cosa Nostra - managed to rebuild its leadership, known as the Cupola, after it had not met for years, reports say. The godfather is also known as the "capo dei capi" - or boss of bosses.
    
        
Italy's Interior Minister Matteo Salvini tweeted that it was "an extraordinary intervention" by the Carabinieri (the paramilitary police), "who have dismantled the new 'cupola' of Cosa Nostra".Italian mafia: How crime families went global
Rome police seize mafia luxury villas
However, another of Mr Salvini's tweets this morning - discussing the alleged arrest of 15 members of the "Nigerian mafia" in Turin - has drawn criticism.Turin magistrate Armando Spataro reportedly said that Mr Salvini's message threatened to disrupt the ongoing operation in the city. Moreover, not all those arrested have links to organised crime, and 15 was not the correct number of people arrested, he said in a statement.
                
                
                
                
                
                 Image copyright
                 Getty Images
                
            
            
            Image caption
                
                    The Sicilian Mafia raid is seen as a major success for Italy's police
                
            In recent years police have hit the Cosa Nostra network hard. It was long handicapped by the fact that Toto Riina was in jail, but when he died the Mafia moved to rebuild the cupola without taking orders from a "godfather".Mafia murders that brought down a European governmentRiina was notorious for his brutality. In 1992 two leading prosecutors, Giovanni Falcone and Paolo Borsellino, were blown up in Mafia hits. Six months later Riina was arrested.'I fell from the clouds'Italian daily newspaper La Repubblica says Settimo Mineo was arrested on Falcone's orders in 1984, and told his interrogators: "I don't know who you're talking about, I fell from the clouds." Mineo was jailed for five years in a big Mafia trial based on the Falcone investigation. He was rearrested in 2006 and spent another 11 years in jail.A well-known "pentito" (police informer), Tommaso Buscetta, is reported to have provided intelligence about Mineo.Italian media report that Mineo avoided using a mobile phone and preferred to walk, rather than travel by car. He allegedly ran Mafia operations in Pagliarelli, a central district in Palermo.
            Media playback is unsupported on your device
      
        
          
      
        Media captionRiina is believed to have ordered more than 150 murdersMineo was valued by Riina, and survived an ambush back in 1982 in which his brother Giuseppe died. Another Mineo brother, Antonino, was shot dead later.Commenting on Tuesday's raid, the head of the parliamentary anti-mafia commission, Nicola Morra, said "the state has won". He warned: "They will never give up - but nor shall we."  
            

