
    Khashoggi murder: Saudi crown prince crazy, says US senator

        

    
        
            Media playback is unsupported on your device
      
        
          
      
        Media captionLindsey Graham: 'There's not a smoking gun, there's a smoking saw'US senators say they are more certain than ever after a private CIA briefing that the Saudi crown prince had a role in the murder of a journalist.In a blistering attack, Senator Lindsey Graham said he had "high confidence" Mohammed bin Salman was complicit in the killing of Jamal Khashoggi.The South Carolina Republican described the Saudi royal as "a wrecking ball", "crazy" and "dangerous".The Saudis have charged 11 people but deny the crown prince was involved.Where the Saudi prince stands revealed
Jamal Khashoggi: The story so far
What did senators say?Members of the Senate's Committee on Foreign Relations did not mince words after the briefing by CIA Director Gina Haspel on Tuesday.
    
        
"There is not a smoking gun - there is a smoking saw," Mr Graham said, referring to Khashoggi's alleged dismemberment in the Saudi consulate in Istanbul in October.The senator said he could not support Saudi Arabia's border war with Yemen or arms sales to Riyadh as long as the crown prince remained in power. Senator Bob Menendez, a New Jersey Democrat, echoed those views.He said the US must "send a clear and unequivocal message that such actions are not acceptable in the world's stage".
            Media playback is unsupported on your device
      
        
          
      
        Media captionThe BBC's Frank Gardner looks at what could happen to the man known as MBSAnother senator, Bob Corker, told reporters, using the crown prince's initials: "I have zero question on my mind that the crown prince MBS ordered the killing."The Tennessee Republican added: "If he was in front of a jury he would be convicted in 30 minutes. Guilty."Mr Corker suggested that President Donald Trump had condoned the murder of a journalist by refusing to condemn the Saudi crown prince.Fellow Republican Senator Richard Shelby of Alabama said: "Now the question is, how do you separate the Saudi crown prince and his group from the nation?"The Senate is planning to vote on a proposal to end US military involvement in Yemen, after members of both parties advanced the resolution last week.Senator Chris Murphy, who was not privy to Tuesday's briefing, criticised the Trump administration."Not everything needs to be secret," the Connecticut Democrat tweeted."If our government knows that Saudi leaders were involved in the murder of a US resident, why shouldn't the public know this?"
    
      
              
              Image Copyright @ChrisMurphyCT
              @ChrisMurphyCT
          
          Report
      
          
                  Image Copyright @ChrisMurphyCT
                  @ChrisMurphyCT
              
              Report
          
    


                
                
                
                
                
            
            
        What has the CIA said?The CIA has concluded Mohammed bin Salman "probably ordered" the killing of Khashoggi.The spy agency has evidence he exchanged messages with Saud al-Qahtani, who allegedly oversaw the Saudi reporter's murder.The CIA director - who has reportedly heard an audio recording of the murder - did not attend a recent congressional briefing by cabinet members, dismaying lawmakers.The White House denied having a hand in Ms Haspel's conspicuous absence, and the CIA said no one had told Ms Haspel not to attend.At last week's hearing, Secretary of State Mike Pompeo and Defence Secretary James Mattis told senators there was no direct evidence of the crown prince's involvement in Khashoggi's death.President Trump has said the CIA findings on the crown prince were not conclusive. On 20 November he said: "It could very well be that the crown prince had knowledge of this tragic event - maybe he did and maybe he didn't."
    
        
            Please upgrade your browser to view this content.
        
        
            
              
                
                      Khashoggi killing timeline
                    
                    
                      hide
                      
                    
                  
                    How the story unfolded
                    
                    
                    What happened next?
                      Show all
                    
                        Was this timeline useful?
                            Yes
                            No
                            Thank you for your feedback.
                        
                  
                  
                  
                
            
        
    

Journalist who stepped into a consulate and vanished
Jamal Khashoggi in his own words
Who was Jamal Khashoggi?As a prominent journalist, he covered major stories including the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan and the rise of Osama Bin Laden for various Saudi news organisations.
                
                
                
                
                
                 Image copyright
                 Getty Images
                
            
            
            Image caption
                
                    Jamal Khashoggi had gone to Istanbul to obtain a marriage document
                
            For decades the US resident was close to the Saudi royal family and also served as an adviser to the government.But he fell out of favour and went into self-imposed exile in the US last year. From there, he wrote a monthly column in the Washington Post in which he criticised the policies of Mohammed bin Salman.
                
                
                
                
                
            
            
        More on the war in Yemen:Yemen crisis: Why is there a war?
Yemen's conflict in 400 words
'A million more' Yemen children face famine

                
                
                
                
                
            
            
        

