
    Turkey train crash: At least nine dead in Ankara

        

    
        
                
                Image copyright
                 Anadolu Agency
                
            
            
            Image caption
                
                    Rescue workers search the wreckage for survivors
                
            A crash involving a high-speed train at a station in the Turkish capital Ankara has killed at least nine people and injured 47, Turkey's transport minister has said.Images from the scene showed emergency services working to rescue people from badly damaged carriages.Reports quoting local officials said the high-speed train had collided with another train, then an overpass.The accident occurred at about 06:30 local time (03:30 GMT).
            Media playback is unsupported on your device
      
        
          
      
        Media captionEmergency workers pulled survivors from the wreckageThe crash happened at the Marsandiz railway station, around 8km (5 miles) from Ankara's main station.
    
        
At a news conference, Ankara governor Vasip Sahin said the train was travelling from Ankara to the southern city of Konya when it collided with a locomotive inspecting tracks at the station. 
                
                
                
                
                
            
            
        Three train drivers were among nine people killed in the crash, according to Turkish Transport Minister Cahit Turhan.Turkey's state-funded Anadolu Agency reports that 206 passengers were on board the train. Three of the injured are said to be in a serious condition.
                
                
                
                
                
                 Image copyright
                 Anadolu Agency
                
            
            
            Image caption
                
                    Rescue workers evacuate injured passengers after crash
                
            
                
                
                
                
                
                 Image copyright
                 EPA
                
            
            
        A large number of emergency workers arrived at the scene shortly after the collision, which occurred in snowy conditions. Search and rescue efforts are still under way. The Ankara state prosecutor's office says it has launched an official investigation into the cause of the crash,In a tweet (in Turkish), the Union of Chambers of Turkish Engineers and Architects quoted its Chairman Yunus Yener as saying that "signalling problems" had been flagged on the line "for some time". It added: "The accident is murder!"In July, 24 people were killed in Turkey  when a train travelling from the north-western town of Kapikule en route to Istanbul derailed.Were you in the area at the time of the crash? Email your story to haveyoursay@bbc.co.uk.Please include a contact number if you are willing to speak to a BBC journalist. You can also contact us in the following ways:WhatsApp: +44 7555 173285

Tweet: @BBC_HaveYourSay

Send an SMS or MMS to 61124 (UK) or +44 7624 800 100 (international)
Please read our terms & conditions and privacy policy



