
    Kenya targets 'fish thieves' with new coastguard

        

    
        
                
                Image copyright
                 Kenya Government
                
            
            
            Image caption
                
                    This vessel - the MV Doria - is the Kenyan coastguard's first and only boat
                
            Kenya's president has launched the country's first coastguard to protect and monitor its territorial waters.It will guard against illegal fishing, which President Uhuru Kenyatta says costs Kenya about $100m (£78m) a year. It is also intended to secure territorial waters against smuggling and drug trafficking.Until now, Kenya's maritime security depended solely on the Navy. Authorities say it will now be free to focus on security and military affairs.Africa Live: Updates on this and other stories
Fishermen's app: 'We can go direct to the consumer'
But Kenya's coastguard currently only has one boat, which means the new force will still rely heavily on the Navy until it finds its footing, says the BBC's Ferdinand Omondi in the capital, Nairobi.
    
        
The Navy has often undertaken joint anti-drugs operations with other security forces in the coastal city of Mombasa.  In 2014 on President Kenyatta's orders, it destroyed a ship alleged to have been carrying illegal drugs worth $12.6m (£9.8m).Launching the coastguard unit near the shore of Mombasa, President Kenyatta unveiled the vessel - called the MV Doria - that has been commissioned for surveillance purposes.At the event, Mr Kenyatta said foreign vessels trawling Kenyan waters was a major concern. He later tweeted about the need to guard against foreign vessels who "steal our fish".
    
        
            Skip Twitter post  by @UKenyatta
            
                The Coast Guard will ensure that our ocean will not be used for drug & human trafficking, & illegal fishing. It will guard against exploitation of our natural resources by foreign countries & ensure that no foreign vessel will steal our fish #MVDoria #BlueEconomyKe @WilliamsRuto pic.twitter.com/kjhsEd7M8I— Uhuru Kenyatta (@UKenyatta) November 19, 2018

            Report
            
            End of Twitter post  by @UKenyatta
        
    

'Overwhelmed and under-resourced'Analysis - Ferdinand Omondi, BBC News
                
                
                
                
                
                 Image copyright
                 Hulton Archive/Getty Images
                
            
            
        In the vast Kenyan waters, the underfunded maritime police have been overwhelmed. The International Organisation for Migration has named Kenya as a major transit point for human trafficking and the sex trade.  This new force launches with plenty of optimism, but just one boat. That's hardly enough to patrol Kenya's coastline which stretches over 621 miles (1,000km). And there's Lake Victoria, where Kenyan fishermen have long complained of harassment from Ugandan forces on contested waters.To succeed where the maritime police failed, the Kenya Coast Guard will need political backing and resources. Lots of it.
            

