
    National Guard troops help search for Camp Fire victims

        

    
        
                
                Image copyright
                 Getty Images
                
            
            
            Image caption
                
                    Residents embrace while looking over the remains of their burned residence after the Camp fire tore through the region in Paradise, California
                
            National Guard troops are to arrive in northern California to help search for more victims of a wildfire that has killed 48 people.On Wednesday, about 100 military police will join teams searching what remains of the town of Paradise after the Camp Fire incinerated it.Several victims have filed a lawsuit against an electricity company accused of starting the blaze.A new wind-driven fire began menacing San Bernardino County homes on Tuesday.Before and after snapshots
Is it advisable to escape a wildfire by car?
Red carpets cancelled after wildfires
The new brush blaze, dubbed the Sierra Fire, burned close to homes in Rialto and consumed 20 acres in 15 minutes thanks to heavy winds. No evacuations have been ordered yet there.
    
        

                
                
                
                
                
                 Image copyright
                 Getty Images
                
            
            
            Image caption
                
                    Roseville firefighters put out hotspots in Paradise, California
                
            Crews have contained 35% of the Camp Fire in northern California, which has become the deadliest conflagration in state history.They do not expect to fully contain the blaze - which has razed 130,000 acres (52,600 ha) - until the end of the month. In the ruined town of Paradise in Butte County, National Guard troops will assist forensics teams and cadaver dogs as they continue to search for human remains.Dozens of people are still missing.
            Media playback is unsupported on your device
      
        
          
      
        Media captionCalifornia wildfires continue to rageOfficials warn that finding human remains could take weeks.Three portable morgue teams have been requested from the US military along with a "disaster mortuary" crew and three groups of forensic anthropologists.Many victims in Paradise are believed to have been elderly residents or people with mobility issues who would have found evacuating more difficult. Some victims who lost homes in the Camp Fire on Tuesday filed a lawsuit against Pacific Gas & Electric (PG&E), alleging the company's negligence caused the fire. 'Three minutes separated me from death'
Animals caught in wildfire destruction
The photos not from the California fires
The company had reported an incident with a power line in the area where the Camp Fire started just minutes before the blaze was spotted, US media say.Fire officials have not yet confirmed a cause for the blaze. On Monday, the California Public Utilities Commissions (CPUC) announced investigations into PG&E and another electric company, Southern California Edison (SCE).SCE had reported issues with transmission lines near the start of the Hill and Woolsey Fires in southern California.
            Media playback is unsupported on your device
      
        
          
      
        Media captionParadise resident Sorrell Bobrink describes 'apocalyptic' scenesA spokeswoman for CPUC told local media the probes would "assess the compliance of electric facilities with applicable rules and regulations in fire impacted areas".The Woolsey has killed at least two people, bringing the total to 50 lives lost, damaging beach resorts including the rich-and-famous haunt of Malibu.It is still burning across more than 97,000 acres but is 47% contained, the state fire service tweeted.The smaller Hill Fire, is 94% contained in Ventura County, north of Los Angeles. 
                
                
                
                
                
            
            
        More on wildfiresWatch: Long battle against California wildfires
Watch: Why California wildfires are so deadly

            Media playback is unsupported on your device
      
        
          
      
        Media captionWith wildfires occurring across the globe, here are some of the techniques used to stop them
                
                
                
                
                
            
            
        Firefighters have been working round the clock, taking advantage of the evening humidity, maintaining containment lines around the Camp Fire and patrolling within the fire area, according to Cal Fire.At least 7,600 residences have been destroyed in the county along with 1,119 commercial and other structures. Historically, California's "wildfire season" started in summer and ran into early autumn but experts have warned that the risk is now year-round. Low humidity, warm Santa Ana winds, and dry ground after a rain-free month have produced a prime fire-spreading environment.
                
                
                
                
                
            
            
        
                
                
                
                
                
            
            
        
                
                
                
                
                
            
            
        Have you been affected by the wildfires? If it is safe to do so please get in touch. Email haveyoursay@bbc.co.uk.Please include a contact number if you are willing to speak to a BBC journalist. You can also contact us in the following ways:WhatsApp: +44 7555 173285

Tweet: @BBC_HaveYourSay

Send pictures/video to yourpics@bbc.co.uk

Or Upload your pictures/video here

Text an SMS or MMS to 61124 or +44 7624 800 100 

Please read our terms & conditions and privacy policy



