
    India state elections: Setback for Modi's BJP in three key states

        

    
        
                
                Image copyright
                 Reuters
                
            
            
            Image caption
                
                    Congress supporters celebrate initial poll results in Delhi
                
            Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his right-wing BJP party appear to be facing a political setback, with major swings against it in three key state elections.The opposition Congress Party looks set to form governments in Chhattisgarh and Rajasthan, while Madhya Pradesh heads for a photo-finish.Correspondents say a win for the depleted Congress in at least two states will see it regain credibility.General elections are due in 2019. Early results in the central state of Madhya Pradesh put the Congress well ahead, but the BJP has been making a late comeback.  It is still unclear which of the parties will eventually form the government there.
    
        
However the opposition, headed by Rahul Gandhi, has a clear lead in Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh, which are former BJP strongholds. Mr Modi, whose brand of Hindu nationalism helped him come to power in 2014, campaigned aggressively in all three states. 
                
                
                
                
                
            
            
        A shot in the arm for the opposition?Soutik Biswas, BBC News, DelhiThis is the last round of state polls before general elections, which will be held in the next few months.The Congress's vastly improved performance in the three key heartland states will help change the perception that Prime Minister Narendra Modi's BJP is invincible, boost the morale of Congress party workers and make it more acceptable to sceptical regional allies in the run-up to general elections. It will also help raise the profile of the Congress leader, Rahul Gandhi, who led a spirited campaign in the three states.In 2014, the BJP won 62 of the 65 parliamentary seats in these three states.Tuesday's performance will be a shot in the arm for the Congress, which has consistently lost state elections since 2014 - the party rules in only two major states. But state polls are often a poor predictor for the general elections. It will take a lot more - including a powerful counter narrative and wider voter acceptability - for the Congress to mount a serious challenge to Mr Modi next year. The good news is that politics in India is beginning to look competitive again. Read more from Soutik Biswas
                
                
                
                
                
            
            
        Election results are also being declared for the southern state of Telangana and the north-eastern state of Mizoram.  Regional parties - the Telangana Rashtra Samiti (TRS) and the Mizo National Front (MNF) - are headed for a landslide victory in these states.
                
                
                
                
                
                 Image copyright
                 BBC Telugu
                
            
            
            Image caption
                
                    The regional Telangana Rashtriya Samiti has won a landslide in the southern state
                
            The Congress was widely expected to win in the northern state of Rajasthan, while Madhya Pradesh was always seen as a close contest between the two parties. But results in Chhattisgarh, where the Congress appears poised to win by a wide margin, have been the most surprising. "The reason behind the Congress victory is anti-incumbency because people feel that there is a lack of development in most parts of the state despite 15 years of the BJP governing there," reports BBC Hindi's Salman Ravi from the state capital Raipur. "Farmers in particular, who have been angry about what they see as a lack of state support for their profession, voted for the Congress in large numbers. People in the state were clearly looking for change this time," Indian rupee hit by shock resignation, polls
Why India's Narendra Modi remains star BJP vote-catcher
Is Narendra Modi losing his mojo?
Can Rahul Gandhi revive India's Grand Old Party?
An anti-incumbency vote against the BJP in the three key states had been predicted, and some analysts point out people vote differently at state and national level.But the results so far suggest a very visible setback for the BJP, which had steadily increased its state footprint since coming to office in 2014.  And issues of rural discontent - such as unemployment, lack of development and farming distress - are being seen as issues that could affect ballots next year. BBC Hindi's Nitin Srivastava who is in Rajasthan, has been posting photos of the starkly different atmospheres at the BJP and Congress party offices in the state.  
    
        
            Skip Twitter post  by @TweetNitinS
            
                Congress lead in Rajasthan #Election2018 brings jubilant supporters to party HQ in Jaipur. @INCIndia @BBCHindi @BBCIndia #AssemblyElection2018 pic.twitter.com/xQnhpTNEkA— Nitin Srivastava (@TweetNitinS) December 11, 2018

            Report
            
            End of Twitter post  by @TweetNitinS
        
    


                
                
                
                
                
            
            
        
    
        
            Skip Twitter post 2 by @TweetNitinS
            
                Deserted BJP HQ in Jaipur as the party trails in initial trends in Rajasthan. #Election2018 #AssemblyElection2018 @BBCHindi @BBCIndia pic.twitter.com/q1Ec20E31R— Nitin Srivastava (@TweetNitinS) December 11, 2018

            Report
            
            End of Twitter post 2 by @TweetNitinS
        
    


                
                
                
                
                
            
            
        

