
    Ambani-Piramal wedding: Beyoncé sings at A-list Indian event

        

    
        
                
                Image copyright
                 Instagram/Beyonce
                
            
            
            Image caption
                
                    Beyoncé showed off her outfit on Instagram
                
            US singer Beyoncé has performed as part of the lavish festivities at the latest extravagant Indian celebrity wedding.Isha Ambani, the daughter of India's richest man, is tying the knot with Anand Piramal, son of another Indian billionaire, this week. Beyoncé was one of many celebrities flown in, along with Bollywood stars and guests like Hillary Clinton. It comes on the heels of several recent Indian weddings competing for glamour, excess and attention.The Ambanis themselves recently attended the wedding reception of Bollywood actors Deepika Padukone and Ranveer Singh. 
    
        
And last weekend, Isha Ambani was a bridesmaid at the wedding of actress Priyanka Chopra to US singer Nick Jonas.
    
        
            Skip Twitter post  by @filmfare
            
                #Beyonce showing us exactly why she is the true queen! #AmbaniWedding pic.twitter.com/VydmE4sDui— Filmfare (@filmfare) December 10, 2018

            Report
            
            End of Twitter post  by @filmfare
        
    


                
                
                
                
                
            
            
        The actual wedding of the daughter of business tycoon Mukesh Ambani is on Wednesday but the festivities leading up to it kicked off over the weekend. It is likely to be one of India's most expensive and glamorous weddings, and the many guests include former US First Lady and 2016 presidential candidate Hillary Clinton, media giant Arianna Huffington, cricketer Sachin Tendulkar and steel tycoon Lakshmi Mittal.
                
                
                
                
                
                 Image copyright
                 Reuters
                
            
            
            Image caption
                
                    Hillary Clinton poses with the bride, Isha Ambani, and her mother, Nita Ambani
                
            According to media reports, guests had been flown in on 100 chartered flights.Celebrity bloggers, entertainment writers and lifestyle magazines have been scouring Instagram to keep up with festivities. Videos of Bollywood celebrities, including Shah Rukh Khan and Salman Khan, dancing along with the wedding party have already begun to make the rounds, and are going viral on social media. 
    
        
            Skip Twitter post 2 by @filmfare
            
                .@priyankachopra shakes a leg on Desi Girl at #IshaAmbani and #AnandPiramal’s pre-wedding bash. pic.twitter.com/U5nFS0pQHp— Filmfare (@filmfare) December 10, 2018

            Report
            
            End of Twitter post 2 by @filmfare
        
    


                
                
                
                
                
            
            
        
    
        
            Skip Twitter post 3 by @filmfare
            
                .@deepikapadukone does the chogada at #IshaAmbani’s pre-wedding bash. pic.twitter.com/0g5NGQLt0h— Filmfare (@filmfare) December 10, 2018

            Report
            
            End of Twitter post 3 by @filmfare
        
    


                
                
                
                
                
            
            
        India's richest family caps year of big fat weddings
US writer sorry for Priyanka insult
India celebrates big fat Bollywood wedding
Priyanka Chopra wears 75ft wedding veil
Indian Beyoncé fans also showed mock outrage at having missed the opportunity to see her perform live. 
    
        
            Skip Twitter post  by @Shizza_hashmi
            
                Beyonce to perform at Ambani’s wedding??🙄Please use very border-crossing loud speakers. It’s the closest I’ll ever get to her😔— Shizza (@Shizza_hashmi) December 9, 2018

            Report
            
            End of Twitter post  by @Shizza_hashmi
        
    


    
        
            Skip Twitter post  by @abhxshree
            
                Beyoncé is in INDIA and I won’t be able to see her perform. Earlier I was crying about my exams but now I got bigger problems— Bhish (@abhxshree) December 9, 2018

            Report
            
            End of Twitter post  by @abhxshree
        
    


    
        
            Skip Twitter post  by @adeleoutdid
            
                Beyoncé wouldn’t do a show in India, but would come here to perform at a wedding?! WHY BEYONCE!! pic.twitter.com/n3BXKxY0TX— adi 💔 (@adeleoutdid) December 9, 2018

            Report
            
            End of Twitter post  by @adeleoutdid
        
    


                
                
                
                
                
            
            
        
    
        
            Skip Twitter post  by @Hyper_aice
            
                QUEEN BEY IS IN INDIA! And we will never have a chance to see her live cause she is performing at the Ambani wedding. My heart is broken. Kindly respect my need for privacy. #beyonce pic.twitter.com/Ryrp3ihyyO— Aishwarya S (@Hyper_aice) December 9, 2018

            Report
            
            End of Twitter post  by @Hyper_aice
        
    


                
                
                
                
                
            
            
        Beyoncé took to the stage on Sunday night for the sangeet, an evening of music and dance that typically precedes the wedding.She shared photos on her Instagram account of her jewel-studded outfit and elaborate gold jewellery.  Her fee hasn't been made public, but would likely not have been a problem for the Ambanis. Mukesh Ambani, managing director of Reliance Industries, has a personal fortune of around $47bn (£37bn).
                
                
                
                
                
            
            
        Who are the Ambani and Piramal families? 
                
                
                
                
                
                 Image copyright
                 Reuters
                
            
            
            Image caption
                
                    The 27-storey Ambani home - Antilia - in Mumbai
                
            Mukesh Ambani, the father of the bride, Isha, is Asia's richest man and also the 19th wealthiest person in the world, according to Forbes
Ajay Piramal, the father of the groom, Anand, is the head of the Piramal family, which is valued at $5.4bn
Mr Ambani is the chairman of Reliance Industries Limited, one of India's richest companies. It has a wide presence across many industries, including oil and gas, petrochemicals, telecom, retail and media
Mr Piramal has guided his family company into industries such as real estate, pharmaceuticals and packaging. It rose to prominence in the 1930s in the textile industry
In 2016, Mr Ambani formally launched his telecom network, Jio, which offers high speed data at very low costs. Within two years, it has become India's largest network and is widely credited with getting more Indians online in a very short period of time
Mr Piramal is a member of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's Council for Trade and Industry and is widely considered to be one of India's most important business personalities
The Ambani family lives in a 27-storey home in Mumbai city named Antilia. It is the world's most expensive home, costing more than $1bn, boasting features such as multi-level gardens and three helipads

                
                
                
                
                
            
            
        

