
    Bulandshahr violence: Arrests over India policeman killing

        

    
        
                
                Image copyright
                 Courtesy: Sumit Sharma
                
            
            
            Image caption
                
                    Police officer Subodh Kumar Singh died in clashes over alleged cow slaughter
                
            Three men have been held over the killing of an Indian police officer in mob violence that erupted after rumours spread that cows had been slaughtered.Subodh Kumar Singh was killed as police clashed with right wing Hindu groups who said police failed to halt the killing of cows in Uttar Pradesh state.Cows are considered holy by India's majority Hindu population and many states have now banned cow slaughter.The issue has sparked violence before, but an attack on police is unheard of.So-called cow vigilantism has been on the rise and led to several killings in the past few years.
    
        
Police are now looking for 24 others suspected to be involved in Monday's murder in Bulandshahr district.Many states have actively started enforcing bans on cow slaughter after the Hindu nationalist Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) formed India's federal government in 2014.In Monday's incident, a mob attacked policemen and set fire to a police station in Bulandshahr alleging cow slaughter in the area. An 18-year-old protester was killed and another policeman was injured in the violence.A night patrol with India's cow protection vigilantes
How WhatsApp helped turn an Indian village into a lynch mob
The police have registered cases of rioting, attempt to murder and destruction of property against 50 unnamed people.Shops and schools in the area are shut and more than 1,000 policemen have been deployed, says BBC Hindi's Nitin Srivastava in Bulandshahr. Our correspondent says incidents of violence over alleged cow slaughter are not uncommon in this region, but a direct attack on the police is unprecedented.The incident has prompted outrage on social media, with many calling the attack "senseless" and "barbaric". 
    
        
            Skip Twitter post  by @AbdullahArsala8
            
                This incident is a total disgrace to the government. And I am sure you are not going to give a responsible explanation for that, people in the government only knows hypocrisy and they are far away from nationalism#BulandshaharViolence @myyo951 @narendramodi @rajnathsingh— Abdullah Arsalan (@AbdullahArsala8) December 3, 2018

            Report
            
            End of Twitter post  by @AbdullahArsala8
        
    


    
        
            Skip Twitter post  by @tunkuv
            
                May be it will take the senseless killing of a Hindu police inspector to finally put an end to the BJP's tolerance (in the centre and in states) of cow-vigilante-terrorism. #SubodhKumar#BulandshaharViolence#Bulandshahar— Tunku  Varadarajan (@tunkuv) December 3, 2018

            Report
            
            End of Twitter post  by @tunkuv
        
    


    
        
            Skip Twitter post  by @TheAdvIqbal
            
                #BulandshaharViolence and murder of police man. That’s how the MSM must put it. It is not a case of “policeman lost life in violence “.— Arif Iqbal (@TheAdvIqbal) December 3, 2018

            Report
            
            End of Twitter post  by @TheAdvIqbal
        
    


    
        
            Skip Twitter post  by @parthm1989
            
                This can’t be religion.. This is purely barbaric #BulandshaharViolence— Parth Mehta (@parthm1989) December 4, 2018

            Report
            
            End of Twitter post  by @parthm1989
        
    


                
                
                
                
                
                 Image copyright
                 Sumit Sharma
                
            
            
            Image caption
                
                    Police are trying to identify more suspects involved
                
            Local villagers alleged that they found carcasses of some cows near Mahav village on Monday morning. They claimed that the animals had been slaughtered."The local police got information about cow slaughter after which they immediately started investigating the matter," Anuj Jha, a top district official, told reporters on Monday."But soon after, people in the area blocked the streets and started pelting the police with stones." Mr Jha added that police officer Subodh Kumar Singh died in the clashes that followed. It is unclear where the alleged cow slaughter occurred.Police said they were investigating the incident to find out who instigated the violence. 
            

