
    Trump chief of staff: Speculation mounts over job

        

    
        
                
                Image copyright
                 Reuters
                
            
            
            Image caption
                
                    Nick Ayers (left) had been rumoured to be Mr Trump's pick to replace current chief of staff John Kelly (right)
                
            Speculation is mounting over who will be US President Donald Trump's new chief of staff after the man believed to be the top candidate said he too was leaving the government.Nick Ayers, chief of staff to the vice-president, will reportedly return to his home state of Georgia.The 36-year-old was seen as Mr Trump's main choice to replace Gen John Kelly, who will depart by the year's end.But the president appeared to dismiss the idea he had wanted Mr Ayers."I am in the process of interviewing some really great people for the position of White House Chief of Staff," he said in a tweet.
    
        
"Fake News has been saying with certainty it was Nick Ayers, a spectacular person who will always be with our #MAGA agenda. I will be making a decision soon!"The White House revolving door: Who's gone?
The people around Donald Trump
Who's on the list?Exactly who is on the list of interviewees is a source of debate among US media outlets.According to the Washington Post, Republican congressman Mark Meadows, a leader of the ultraconservative House Freedom Caucus, and Mick Mulvaney, the White House's budget director, are in contention.CNN added Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin to the list of possibilities, although this was played down by a source close to the former investment banker.But exactly who will be brave enough to take on the role remains to be seen.Chris Whipple, author of The Gatekeepers: How the White House chiefs of staff define every presidency, told Politico:  "You really do have to wonder why anybody would want to be Donald Trump's White House chief of staff given that so far it's been mission impossible."A house of chaos and uncertaintyAnalysis by Anthony Zurcher, BBC NewsA presidential chief of staff is one of the most prestigious jobs in Washington. He or she holds the (metaphorical) keys to the White House. While the president has the final say in matters, the chief of staff wields incredible informal power and influence.There's no telling what kind of behind-the-scenes machinations led Nick Ayers to pull his name out of the running for the job, but for an up-and-coming 36-year-old political player to pass on the opportunity is remarkable.This isn't the first time a key administration job has opened up without a guaranteed replacement waiting in the wings. It suggests there's plenty of truth to reports of chaos and uncertainty within the Trump White House.Now the search is on for someone to fill John Kelly's position. In normal times, candidates would be queuing up for the opportunity. With the president under investigation, the party reeling from mid-term election losses and the potential for economic turmoil ahead, however, these are not normal times.Why is Kelly leaving?Earlier this year, Gen Kelly, who took over from Reince Priebus in July 2017, was forced to deny he had called Mr Trump an "idiot" after the quote was included in a book about Mr Trump by the veteran investigative journalist Bob Woodward.Gen Kelly is said to have used the description repeatedly and also allegedly said that "it's pointless to try to convince him of anything".
            Media playback is unsupported on your device
      
        
          
      
        Media captionWhat Mr Kelly said in October 2017: 'I was not brought in to control Trump'Mr Ayers name emerged as a possible replacement last month as reports of Gen Kelly's deteriorating relationship with the president began to circulate. But on Sunday, he made it clear he would not be taking on the role in a tweet saying he was resigning from the White House.
    
        
            Skip Twitter post  by @nick_ayers
            
                Thank you @realDonaldTrump, @VP, and my great colleagues for the honor to serve our Nation at The White House. I will be departing at the end of the year but will work with the #MAGA team to advance the cause. 🇺🇸 #Georgia— Nick Ayers (@nick_ayers) December 9, 2018

            Report
            
            End of Twitter post  by @nick_ayers
        
    

According to Politico, Mr Ayers' friends have suggested he wants to run for public office in his home state, Georgia.However, CNN said two sources said First Lady Melania Trump and "some other senior staff" had intervened to block Mr Ayers.
            

