
    Pink Legacy diamond sold for world record price

        

    
        
                
                Image copyright
                 AFP/Getty
                
            
            
            Image caption
                
                    The diamond's new owners have rechristened it the Winston Pink Legacy
                
            A rare pink diamond has fetched 50.3 million Swiss Francs ($50m; £38.5m) at auction, a record price per carat.Pink Legacy, weighing in at just under 19 carats, was bought by US brand Harry Winston at auction in Geneva.The price of around $2.6m per carat marked a world record for a pink diamond, according to the Europe head of auction house Christie's.It had been valued at between $30-$50 million before sale, and was bought after only five minutes of bidding. The diamond's new owners have rechristened it the Winston Pink Legacy.
    
        
Would you buy a synthetic diamond?
Can you spot a laboratory-made diamond?
Once owned by the Oppenheimer family, who formerly ran the De Beers mining company, the diamond was referred to as "one of the world's greatest diamonds" by Christie's international head of jewellery, Rahul Kadakia. "You may see this colour in a pink diamond of less than one carat," Mr Kadakia said. "But this is almost 19 carats and it's as pink as can be. It's unbelievable."
                
                
                
                
                
                 Image copyright
                 AFP/Getty
                
            
            
            Image caption
                
                    The diamond sold after five minutes of bidding
                
            It was graded as "fancy vivid" - the highest level of colour intensity.The rectangular-cut stone was found in a South African mine around a hundred years ago and has likely not been altered since it was first cut in 1920, Christie's said.Finding a fancy vivid pink diamond larger than 10 carats is virtually unheard of, the auction house said. Pink Star diamond sets new world record
Diamond fetches $33.7m at auction
Earrings sold for world record $57.4m
The auction price of the Pink Legacy diamond, sold at Christie's annual Magnificent Jewels auction, beat out the previous record price-per-carat. In November 2017, an 8.41-carat pink diamond sold for $17,768,041 (£11,438,714) in Hong Kong - more than $2.1m (£1.8m) a carat.
            

