
    Syria radio host Raed Fares shot dead in Idlib

        

    
        
                
                
            
            Image caption
                
                    Raed Fares' radio station defied threats from jihadist groups and resisted orders to stop playing music
                
            
                
                
            
        A prominent Syrian radio journalist has been shot dead by gunmen in the rebel-held province of Idlib, Syria. Raed Fares, a well-known Syrian activist, was killed in the northwestern town of Kafranbel. Mr Fares founded Radio Fresh, an independent radio station broadcasting from inside opposition-held areas in the country. He and his radio station had been targeted by jihadist groups in the past. A sarcastic response to Syria's militants
Why does the battle for Idlib matter?
Sense of an ending for Syria's war on Idlib front line
Four years ago, when the Islamic State (IS) group had a presence in Idlib province, the station's office was raided by militants.  In 2016, Mr Fares was detained by the Nusra Front, the former al-Qaeda affiliate in Syria. 
    
        

    
        
            Skip Twitter post  by @FADELABDULGHANY
            
                A new tragedy is added to our long tragic record, tens of times I’ve asked him to leave after he was targeted for the first time and then a second time, and now the third brutal terroristic targeting he has been killed. He was stubborn and dismissive, he would simply answer; pic.twitter.com/edymFcBIkC— Fadel Abdul Ghany (@FADELABDULGHANY) November 23, 2018

            Report
            
            End of Twitter post  by @FADELABDULGHANY
        
    

The Hayat Tahrir al-Sham alliance (HTS), which currently controls most of Idlib province, ordered Radio Fresh to stop broadcasting music. The station's response was to play long sequences of other sounds, such as tweeting birds, clucking chickens and bleating goats. "They tried to force us to stop playing music on air," the 45-year-old former estate agent told the BBC in 2017. "So we started to play animals in the background as a kind of sarcastic gesture against them."
            Media playback is unsupported on your device
      
        
          
      
        Media captionListen to a sample of Radio Fresh FM's wacky farmyard noisesLater, the station began to introduce further defiant sounds including bongs from London's Big Ben clock, ticking sounds, ringing explosions and chanting football fans.Radio Fresh's Facebook page posted a graphic photo of Mr Fares's body on 23 November, along with an image of the body of Hammoud Juneid, another activist who was shot dead.Mr Fares had been a vocal critic of President Bashar al-Assad. In his final Facebook post, he described a protest in Kafranbel on 5 October. "The people of Kafranbel are in Huriyah [Freedom] Square and voices are chanting: The people want the downfall of the regime. We started this in 2011 and we are continuing on. Our loyalty to the martyrs and detainees has increased our determination."News of his death led to an outpouring of grief on social media from activists and international journalists. 
    
        
            Skip Twitter post  by @DRovera
            
                Don't want to believe @RaedFares4 has been killed. One of the few peaceful pro-democracy activists from the early days of the uprising who was still in #Syria .Tireless, uncompromisingly principled, good humored, big-hearted and much more. A huge loss. #KafraNbel . RIP my friend pic.twitter.com/XjWMhnfu3S— Donatella Rovera (@DRovera) November 23, 2018

            Report
            
            End of Twitter post  by @DRovera
        
    


            

