
    'Drunk' Canadian curlers kicked out of tournament final

        

    
        
                
                Image copyright
                 AFP/Getty
                
            
            
            Image caption
                
                    Ryan Fry won gold in Canada's victory over Great Britain at the Sochi 2014 Winter Olympics
                
            A curling team led by an Olympic gold medallist has been kicked out of a Canadian tournament for poor behaviour and drunkenness.Ryan Fry, who won gold for Canada at the 2014 Winter Olympics, and his teammates forfeited their final game at the Red Deer Curling Classic in Alberta after fans and opponents complained.The group reportedly broke brooms and damaged locker rooms. In a statement, Fry apologised for his behaviour. He was part of the Canadian curling team that beat Great Britain's curlers in the Sochi 2014 final.
    
        
"They went out to curl and they were extremely drunk and breaking brooms and swearing," Red Deer Curling Centre facility manager Wade Thurber told Canadian broadcaster CBC. Mr Thurber also said there was "some damage in the locker room".  Fry and teammates Jamie Koe, Chris Schille, and DJ Kidby were disqualified as a result.
    
        
            Skip Twitter post  by @DavidSciacero
            
                 pic.twitter.com/Qbpx4b5yXg— David Sciacero (@DavidSciacero) November 18, 2018

            Report
            
            End of Twitter post  by @DavidSciacero
        
    


                
                
                
                
                
            
            
        "I wish nothing more than to apologise to everyone individually," Fry said. "I will strive to become a better version of myself while contributing positively to the sport and curling community that I love so much."Although he was not taking part, Jamie Koe also issued a statement apologising on behalf of the team.
    
        
            Skip Twitter post  by @JKnwt
            
                My official statement regarding the 2018 Red Deer Curling Classic. pic.twitter.com/FUEbW92dG5— Jamie Koe (@JKnwt) November 19, 2018

            Report
            
            End of Twitter post  by @JKnwt
        
    


                
                
                
                
                
            
            
        The Red Deer Classic bonspiel, or curling event, is a part of the World Curling Tour. It takes place annually in Red Deer, Alberta, and counts towards rankings of the best curling teams in Canada.
                
                
                
                
                
            
            
        YOU MIGHT ALSO BE INTERESTED IN:Why cities are snubbing the Olympics
Cold dark climate linked to heavy drinking
The Rock drops in to Yorkshire gym


