
    Modi's arrival at the G20 summit 'announced with Apu meme'

        

    
        
                
                Image copyright
                 TCFFC
                
            
            
            Image caption
                
                    Some Indian-Americans have complained that the Simpsons character is racist
                
            An Argentine news channel has come under fire for displaying an image of the Simpsons character Apu as Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi arrived in Buenos Aires. Cronica TV used the headline "Apu arrives" as the Indian PM's plane touched down for the G20 summit. Some say the portrayal of the Indian shopkeeper is racist.Social media users responded angrily to the use of the image. Apu Nahasapeemapetilon has been part of the animation series since 1990 and is voiced by Hank Azaria, a white actor, who puts on a heavy Indian accent.
    
        

    
        
            Skip Twitter post  by @Pat_Gillespie
            
                Argentine TV outlet @CronicaTV displays this racist image with the headline “Apu Arrived” as India Prime Minister @narendramodi arrives in Buenos Aires for the #G20. pic.twitter.com/oNqZVpS4E5— Patrick Gillespie (@Pat_Gillespie) November 29, 2018

            Report
            
            End of Twitter post  by @Pat_Gillespie
        
    


                
                
                
                
                
            
            
        Indian-American comic Hari Kondabolu made a documentary about the character in 2017, arguing that Apu was founded on racial stereotypes. Mr Kondabolu told the BBC at the time that the character was problematic because he is defined by his job and how many children he has in his arranged marriage. Others defended the show and said all its characters were stereotypes.Not all Indians think Apu is a racist stereotypeIn response to Cronica's use of the character Mr Kondabolu tweeted: "This couldn't be true, right?" 
    
        
            Skip Twitter post  by @harikondabolu
            
                This couldn’t be true, right? https://t.co/xiEzNgpXip— Hari Kondabolu (@harikondabolu) November 30, 2018

            Report
            
            End of Twitter post  by @harikondabolu
        
    


                
                
                
                
                
            
            
        Others pointed out that the comparison was disrespectful to a foreign leader. 
    
        
            Skip Twitter post  by @JayantBhushan1
            
                This is unacceptable. He is our PM and must be respected on international dais like other dignitaries...— JaYanT BhusHaN® (@JayantBhushan1) November 30, 2018

            Report
            
            End of Twitter post  by @JayantBhushan1
        
    


                
                
                
                
                
            
            
        Mr Modi's arrival at the G20 was not the only one to stir up social media controversy. When French President Emmanuel Macron arrived on Thursday he was greeted by an empty runway, as the Argentine delegation had not arrived on time to meet him.
            

