
    George Bush Senior dies at the age of 94

        

    
        
            Media playback is unsupported on your device
      
        
          
      
        Media captionA look back at the life of George HW BushFormer US President George HW Bush has died at the age of 94, his son George W Bush has announced.Bush Sr served as the 41st US president between 1989 and 1993, his term defined by the end of the Cold War and the first Iraq war against Saddam Hussein. While his health had been failing in recent years, he still managed to make public appearances. The former president died at 22:10 local time on Friday (04:10 GMT Saturday), a family spokesperson said.In April, he was admitted to hospital with a blood infection but had since been discharged. Bush was also being treated for a form of Parkinson's disease.
    
        
He died seven months after his wife, Barbara. The making of a president
Obituary: George HW Bush
Follow live updates on Bush Senior's death
George HW Bush: The war years
"Jeb, Neil, Marvin, Doro, and I are saddened to announce that after 94 remarkable years, our dear Dad has died," his son George Bush Jr, who went on to serve as the 43rd US president, said in a statement."[He] was a man of the highest character and the best dad a son or daughter could ask for."
    
        
            Skip Twitter post  by @jgm41
            
                Statement by the 43rd President of the United States, George W. Bush, on the passing of his father this evening at the age 94. pic.twitter.com/oTiDq1cE7h— Jim McGrath (@jgm41) December 1, 2018

            Report
            
            End of Twitter post  by @jgm41
        
    


                
                
                
                
                
            
            
        Tributes have poured in for the former Republican - current US President Donald Trump praised his "essential authenticity, disarming wit, and unwavering commitment to faith, family and country."The US flag has been lowered to half mast at the White House. Who was George HW Bush?Bush Sr's single presidential term in office was dominated by foreign policy - the collapse of communism in Eastern Europe and Iraqi leader Saddam Hussein's invasion of Kuwait in 1990. He was instrumental in building the international military coalition that forced Iraq's Saddam Hussein out of Kuwait. Bush became president after serving two terms as vice-president to Ronald Reagan, but he suffered the ignominy of becoming a single-term president - defeated by Bill Clinton in the 1992 election amid a weakening economy. His famous 1988 campaign promise - "Read my lips. No new taxes" - came back to haunt him when he felt compelled to reverse policy. George HW Bush: Life in pictures
                
                
                
                
                
                 Image copyright
                 AFP
                
            
            
            Image caption
                
                    Bush enjoying some downtime on the Kennebunk River in 1990
                
            Bush entered politics in 1964 after starting a Texan oil business and becoming a millionaire by the age of 40. During World War Two, he was an aviator before being shot down by the Japanese in September 1944 while on a bombing raid.Following his honourable discharge from the navy in 1945, Bush married then 18-year-old Barbara Pierce. Their marriage would last 73 years and they would have six children together.
            Media playback is unsupported on your device
      
        
          
      
        Media captionJeb Bush, delivering his mother's eulogy, remembered the love between his parentsIn later life, his character came under scrutiny when he was accused of groping a number of women at public events. A statement issued by his spokesman after a recent incident said he would never "intentionally cause anyone distress". How has the US media reported his death?New York Times: "Some critics have said that Mr Hussein would not have been so bold as to invade Kuwait had Washington not shamelessly cultivated him over the years; others faulted Mr Bush for not pushing Mr Hussein all the way back to Baghdad and removing him from power. Such a course, Mr Bush said later, would have 'incurred incalculable human and political costs … We would have been forced to occupy Baghdad and, in effect, rule Iraq.' Which is exactly what his son, George W Bush, a less cautious man, set out to do 12 years later - with disastrous results."Fox News: "Although occasionally criticized for his lack of eloquence - such as referring to a focus on the larger picture as 'the vision thing' - Bush's comments also could be endearingly frank. Referring to his dislike for a particular vegetable, he once said, 'I do not like broccoli. And I haven't liked it since I was a little kid and my mother made me eat it. And I'm President of the United States and I'm not going to eat any more broccoli.'"Who has been paying tribute?Theresa May said that "in navigating a peaceful end to the Cold War he made the world a safer place for generations to come"."Today Britain remembers a great statesman and a true friend of our country. We send our deepest condolences to the American people and to the family he leaves behind," the prime minister said.Former UK PM John Major issued a statement saying he was "privileged to have worked" with George HW Bush. Bill Clinton said he and Hillary gave "thanks for his great long life of service, love and friendship"."I am grateful for every minute I spent with him and will always hold our friendship as one of my life's greatest gifts," he tweeted.Celebrities have also been messaging their reflections. 
    
        
            Skip Twitter post  by @goldiehawn
            
                My heart aches knowing  George Bush 41 has passed. An authentic caring human being who never hid his truth. He will always remind us 2 exemplify that wining will never be our legacy. His love for life and family will live on  RIP dear soul.— Goldie Hawn (@goldiehawn) December 1, 2018

            Report
            
            End of Twitter post  by @goldiehawn
        
    

Comedian Ellen DeGeneres recalled Bush's help after Hurricane Katrina in 2005.
    
        
            Skip Twitter post  by @TheEllenShow
            
                I will never forget George H.W. Bush and President Clinton meeting me in my old hometown of New Orleans to show support and raise money after Hurricane Katrina. I send my love to his family tonight.— Ellen DeGeneres (@TheEllenShow) December 1, 2018

            Report
            
            End of Twitter post  by @TheEllenShow
        
    

When will the funeral take place?Funeral arrangements have yet to be announced, but family spokesman Jim McGrath said they would be made public "as soon as is practical". The last state funeral for a former president was that of Gerald Ford which began on 30 December 2006 with a lying in state and service at the US Capitol.  Further services were held at the Washington National Cathedral on 2 January 2007 and the following day in Grand Rapids, Michigan, his boyhood home. The US flag was flown at half mast on official buildings for 30 days. 
            

